In the clinical laboratory, sleep is defined by its electro- encephalography (EEG) in concert with
electromyog- raphy (EMG), electrooculography (EOG) and other telemetry.
Using polysomnographic recordings, sleep can be classified into rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and
non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep.
The NREM sleep is further classified into 3 sleep stages namely Stage N1 sleep, Stage N2 sleep, and
stage N3 sleep (also known as slow wave sleep, delta sleep or deep sleep), based primarily on the
occurrence of synchronous physiologic EEG potentials.
Drowsy awake with eyes closed is defined by the presence of alpha - the fre- quency with the most
power on spectral analysis.
Sleep onset (Stage N1) is generally defined as occurring at the point in which there is a decline of
alpha rhythm (9– 11 Hz) to less than 50% of the recorded epoch.
Stage N2 sleep is denoted by bursts of sleep spindles at sigma fre- quency (11–16 Hz) and K-complex
events - electro- physiological down states known to negatively affect the general tendency of
neurons to develop spike potential activity (Cash et al.
2009).
Deep sleep (stage N3 sleep) oc- curs in association with delta frequency oscillations (0.5– 1.5 Hz).
REM sleep is characterized by bursts of intracra- nial theta (5–8 Hz), with alpha and gamma
oscillations noted in scalp recordings, associated with conjugate eye.
Class of drugs                            Eeg frequencies                                                                      Treatment  indications
Delta            Theta            Alpha            Sigma           Beta/Gamma
(0.5–1.5 Hz)     (5.5–8.5 Hz)     (8.5–11 Hz)      (12–16 Hz)      (21–32 Hz)
Benzodiazepines  (BZDs)                                                     Decrease         Increase        Increase          Anxiety
Sedation
Barbiturates                                                                                 Increase        Increase          Anxiety
Sedation
Epilepsy
Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs)          decrease         Decrease                                          Increase          Depression
SSRI Antidepressants                      decrease                          Increase                                           Depression
Anxiety
OCD
Amphetamines                              decrease         Decrease                                          increase          Somnolence
Narcolepsy
AD/HD
Opiates                                   increase                          decrease                                           Pain
Anticonvulsants                                            increase                                                            Epilepsy
Phenytoin, valproate, carbamazepine
Gamma   hydroxy  butyrate (GHB)           increase                                                                             Cataplexy
Narcolepsy
Classic Neuroleptics                                       increase         decrease         decrease                          Schizophrenia
Psychosis
movements and diminished skeletal EMG activity.
Medi- cations producing CNS-related behavioral effects generally affect background EEG frequencies
(Mamdema and Dan- hof 1992).
In most cases, a consistent pattern of EEG change produced by a drug is associated with a consistent
pattern of behavioral change (Hermann and Schaerer 1986).
Psychoactive drugs produce alterations in physio- logic EEG rhythms consistent across therapeutic
classifica- tions and utilized to predict the behavioral activity of new preparations, drug
interactions and toxicities (Blume 2006) (Table 2).
Sleep regulation is a complex interaction between the homeostatic and the endogenous circadian
processes (Borbély et al.
2016).
The circadian processes of sleep are largely controlled by the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in the
hypothalamus (Dai et al.
1998; Hofman et al.  1996; Swaab et al.  1985; Vimal et al.  2009).
This in- ternal human clock responds to external factors with the greatest influence being exposure
to light/dark (LD) cycle (Lewy et al.
1980; Morin 2015).
The other import- ant element to the timing of the sleep/wake cycle is the endogenously produced
neural hormone melatonin, pro- duced by the pineal gland in response to signals from the SCN.
Melatonin can induce sedation, an effect sometimes utilized to assist children in tolerating med-
ical procedures (Johnson et al.
2002).
In addition to regulation of the sleep/wake cycle, body temperature and numerous other processes
vary with circadian rhythm (Sack et al.
2007).  Externally introduced.
