The statewide assessments are how we as a state measure that curriculum and daily instruction in our
schools are being aligned to the academics standards, ensuring all students are being provided an
equitable education.
Statewide assessment results are just one tool to monitor that we are providing our students with
the education that will ensure a strong workforce and knowledgeable citizens.
• In Minnesota’s implementation of the federal Every Student Succeeds Act, a student not
participating in the statewide assessments will not receive an individual score and for the purpose
of school and district accountability calculations, including opportunities for support and
recognition, will not be considered “proficient.”.
• Parents and the general public use assessment information to compare schools and make decisions
about where to purchase a home or to enroll their children.
• School performance results that are publicly released and used by families and communities, are
negatively impacted if students do not participate in assessments.
The Minnesota K–12 Academic Standards are the statewide expectations for student academic
achievement.
They identify the knowledge and skills that all students must achieve in a content area and are
organized by grade level.
School districts determine how students will meet the standards by developing courses and curriculum
aligned to the academic standards.
The statewide assessments in mathematics, reading, and science are used to measure whether students,
and their school and district, are meeting the academic standards.
Statewide assessments are one measure of how well students are doing on the content that is part of
their daily instruction.
It is also a measure of how well schools and districts are doing in aligning their curriculum and
teaching the standards.
Minnesota   Comprehensive    Assessments    (MCA)  and             ACCESS  and  Alternate  ACCESS  for English Learners
Minnesota   Test of Academic   Skills (MTAS)
• Based on  the WIDA  English Language Development
•  Based on the Minnesota  Academic   Standards; given               Standards.
annually in grades 3–8 and high school in reading and           • Given annually to English learners in grades K–12 in reading,
mathematics;  given annually in grades 5, 8, and high school      writing, listening, and speaking.
for science.                                                    • Majority of English learners take ACCESS for ELLs.
•  Majority of students take the MCA.                              • Alternate ACCESS  for ELLs is an option for English learners
•  MTAS  is an option for students with the most significant         with the most significant cognitive disabilities.
cognitive disabilities.
Minnesota Statutes, section 120B.31, subdivision 4a, requires the commissioner to create and publish
a form for parents and guardians to complete if they refuse to have their student participate in
state-required standardized assessments.
Your student’s district may require additional information.
School districts must post this three-page form on the district website and include it in district
student handbooks.
To best support school district planning, please submit this form to the student’s school no later
than January 15 of the academic school year.
For students who enroll after a statewide testing window begins, please submit the form within two
weeks of enrollment.
A new refusal form is required each year parents/guardians wish to opt the student out of statewide
assessments.
Date                       (This form is only applicable for the 20     to 20     school year.)
Student’s Legal First Name                                           Student’s Legal Middle  Initial
Student’s Legal Last Name                                            Student’s Date  of Birth
Student’s District/School                                                              Grade
MCA/MTAS   Reading                      MCA/MTAS    Science
MCA/MTAS   Mathematics                  ACCESS/Alternate  ACCESS for ELLs
I understand that by signing this form, my school and I may lose valuable information about how well
my student is progressing academically.
As a result, my student will not receive an individual score.
Refusing to participate in statewide assessments may impact the school, district, and state’s
efforts to equitably distribute resources and support student learning; for the purpose of school
and district accountability calculations, my student will not be considered “proficient.”.
If my student is in high school, I understand that by signing this form my student will not have an
MCA score that could potentially save time and money by not having to take remedial, non-cr edit
courses at a Minnesota State college or university.
