This form should be completed on paper or electronically by the pharmacist checking the work card.
Place check mark (or N/A) in each space after each check is completed.
Your check marks and initials at the bottom of this work sheet are your personal assurance that you
checked all these items for accuracy in the setup and transcription of information onto the work
card.
Each drug requires a separate checklist.
Patient                           Drug
Start date
Administration  time
Stop  date
Duration
Correct  drug name
Number   of doses
Dose
Drug  concentration
Drug  volume
Diluent
Volume   of diluent       Overfill        Drug  in overfill
Expiration time
Special  delivery devices (tubing, cassette, container, etc.)
Correct  route of administration
Correct  line type, as appropriate
Correct  mixing instructions (special directions, e.g., “Do Not Filter”)
Auxiliary label information (e.g., “Do Not Refrigerate,” “Use  In-line Filter,” “For Intrathecal Use Only”)
Correct  total volume
Pharmacist’s  initials                   Date
identity when a medication is dispensed.
Patients who self- administer their medications or personal caregivers should visually examine the
medication, confirm whether its ap- pearance meets their expectations, and compare its instruc-
tions with information they received from their healthcare providers (e.g., a chemotherapy
calendar).
Dispensing and Administering Chemotherapy Medications (Checkpoints 6–9).
At checkpoint 6, before starting treat- ment, each chemotherapy medication should be checked in-
dependently against the prescriber’s orders by at least two individuals who are trained and
competent to administer chemotherapy medications.
All dosage- and administration- rate-related calculations should be independently verified.
This includes any infusion pump rate settings, which should be checked at the initiation of each
container of the infu- sion, periodically throughout the infusion, and whenever a new nurse assumes
care for the patient.
Healthcare providers should routinely confirm that the medication will be admin- istered to the
intended patient by comparing a patient’s name and unique identifying code or number with medication
la- bels (e.g., alpha–numeric characters or bar codes) and that a drug product’s identity, ancillary
components (e.g., addi-.
tional medications, diluent, and vehicle solutions), route of administration, and schedule are
correct.
At checkpoint 7, healthcare providers should exam- ine the medication container and note whether the
content’s general appearance is what was expected.
Many parenteral chemotherapy products have distinctive colors, and prod- uct coloration should be
confirmed before administration.
At checkpoint 8, patients who self-administer their medications (or receive it from personal
caregivers) should carefully read the container’s label to confirm the product’s identity and review
its instructions for use (schedule of dos- ing, whether to take with or without food) each time they
take a medication.
At checkpoint 9, patients should be encouraged to ask questions about their treatment before its
administration and compare its appearance and medication label with informa- tion they received
about the treatment.
Patient identification using two identifiers should occur prior to chemotherapy administration.
Whenever possible, barcode-driven admin- istration should be used.40 In ambulatory care practice, it
is common for patients.
