This draft guidance,  when  finalized, will represent the Food and Drug  Administration’s   (FDA’s)  current
thinking on  this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does not operate  to
bind FDA   or the public. You  can  use an alternative approach  if the approach satisfies the requirements of
the applicable statutes and regulations.  If you want to discuss an alternative approach,  contact the FDA
staff responsible for implementing   this guidance. If you cannot  identify the appropriate FDA   staff, call
the appropriate number   listed on the title page of this guidance.
This draft guidance  describes the Food  and Drug  Administration’s  (FDA’s   or Agency’s)  current
thinking on recommended     practices for drug manufacturers  (firms) and their representatives to
follow if they choose to distribute to health care professionals2 or health care entities3 scientific
or medical  journal articles that discuss new risk information for approved prescription drugs4,5,6
marketed  in the United States. The  recommendations    in this draft guidance are intended to
address issues specific to the distribution of new information about  risks associated with a drug
that further characterizes risks identified in the approved labeling.
The  recommendations    in this draft guidance are intended to apply to distribution of new risk
information  (as that term is further explained in section II of this document) for drugs intended
for human  and  animal use. Throughout   this draft guidance, the Agency  provides references  to
regulations and guidances  specific to drugs intended  for human  use. Unless  otherwise  indicated,
the Agency  generally  takes a similar approach when   addressing the issues raised in this draft
guidance  as they pertain to animal drugs.
1 This draft guidance has been prepared  by the Center for Drug Evaluation  and Research  (CDER)   in cooperation
with the Center for Biologics Evaluation  and Research  (CBER)   and the Center for Veterinary Medicine  (CVM)   at
the Food  and Drug  Administration.
2 For purposes of this draft guidance, health care professionals include those providing care to either human or
animal patients.
3 As used in this draft guidance, health care entities include hospitals, professional medical organizations, drug
formulary  committees,  pharmacy  benefit managers,  health insurance issuers, group health plans, and Federal or
State governmental  agencies involved  in the provision of health care or health insurance. For purposes of the draft
guidance, health care entities also include any such similar organizations involved in animal health care.
4 As used in this draft guidance, the term drug includes drugs approved  for use in humans or animals and  drugs
regulated as biological products licensed under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act  (42 U.S.C. 262(a)).
5 For animal drugs, this draft guidance also applies to over-the-counter and Veterinary Feed Directive drugs.
6 This guidance does  not apply to products regulated as medical devices.
