• Mood disturbances and cognitive difficulties. Complaints of irritability, loss of interest, mild depression and anxi- ety are common among insomnia patients. Patients with chronic insomnia often complain of mental inefficiency, difficulty remembering, difficulty focusing attention, and difficulty with complex mental tasks. • Quality of life: The irritability and fatigue associated with insomnia may cause interpersonal difficulties for insomnia patients, or avoidance of such activities. Conversely, in- terpersonal difficulties may be an important contributor to insomnia problems for some individuals. Sleep and wak- ing problems may lead to restriction of daytime activities, including social events, exercise, or work. Lack of regular daytime activities and exercise may in turn contribute to insomnia. • Exacerbation of comorbid conditions. Comorbid condi- tions may cause or increase sleep difficulties. Likewise, poor sleep may exacerbate symptomatology of comorbid conditions. Sleep complaints may herald the onset of mood disorders or exacerbation of comorbid conditions. VI. Other History: A complete insomnia history also in- cludes medical, psychiatric, medication/substance, and family/ social/occupational histories. A wide range of medical (Table 5) and psychiatric (Table 6) conditions can be comorbid with
insomnia. Likewise, the direct effects of over-the-counter and prescription medications and substances (Table 7), and their effects upon withdrawal, may impact both sleep and daytime symptoms. Conditions often comorbid with insomnia, such as mood and anxiety disorders, may also have familial or genetic components. Social and occupational histories may indicate not only the effects of insomnia on the individual, but also possible contributing factors. Occupational assessment should specifi- cally include work around dangerous machinery, driving duties, regular or irregular shift-work and transmeridian travel. Physical and Mental Status Examination: Chronic in- somnia is not associated with any specific features on physi- cal or mental status examination. However, these exams may provide important information regarding comorbid conditions and differential diagnosis. A physical exam should specifically evaluate risk factors for sleep apnea (obesity, increased neck circumference, upper airway restrictions) and comorbid medi- cal conditions that include but are not limited to disorders of pulmonary, cardiac, rheumatologic, neurological, endocrine (such as thyroid), and gastrointestinal systems. The mental sta- tus exam should focus on mood, anxiety, memory, concentra- tion, and degree of alertness or sleepiness. Supporting Information: While a thorough clinical history and exam form the core of the evaluation, differential diagno- sis is further aided by the use of sleep logs, questionnaires for sleep quality, sleepiness, psychological assessment and quality of life (Table 8), and in some cases, actigraphy.21-23 For specific insomnias, psychological testing, quality of life questionnaires, and other comorbid questionnaires and testing are useful. The choice of assessment tools should be based on the patient’s pre- sentation and the clinician’s expertise. At minimum, the patient should complete: (1) A general medical/psychiatric/medication questionnaire (to identify comorbid disorders and medication use) (2) The Epworth Sleepiness Scale or other sleepiness assess- ment (to identify sleepy patients)24 (3) A two-week sleep log to identify sleep-wake times, gen- eral patterns, and day-to-day variability. When possible, questionnaires and a two-week sleep log should be completed prior to the first visit to begin the process
Description
ESS  is an 8-item self report questionnaire used  to assess subjective sleepiness (score range:
0-24; normal  <10).
ISI is a 7-item rating used to assess the patient’s perception of insomnia.
PSQI  is a 24-item self report measure of sleep quality (poor sleep: global score >5).
BDI  (or BDI-II) is a 21-item self report inventory used to measure depression  (minimal  or no
depression: BDI  <10;  moderate  to severe: BDI  >18).
STAI  is a 20-item self report inventory used to measure  anxiety (score range: 20-80;
minimum    anxiety: T-score <50; significant anxiety: T score >70).
FSS  is a 9-item patient rating of daytime fatigue.
SF-36  is a 36-item self report inventory that generically measures quality of life for any dis-
order (range from  0 (poorest) to 100 (well-being).
DBAS    is a self-rating of 28 statements that is used to assess negative cognitions about sleep.
