Journalists act as gatekeepers to the scientific world, control- ling what information reaches the public eye and how it is presented.
Analyzing the kinds of research that typically re- ceive more media attention is vital to understanding issues such as the “science of science communication” (National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine 2017), patterns of misinformation, and the “cycle of hype.” We track the coverage
of 91,997 scientific articles published in 2016 across various disciplines, publishers, and news outlets us- ing metadata and text data from a leading tracker of sci- entific coverage in social and traditional media, Altmetric.
We approach the problem as one of ranking each day’s, or week’s, papers by their likely level of media attention, us- ing the learning-to-rank model lambdaMART (Burges 2010).
We find that ngram features from the title, abstract and press release significantly improve performance over the metadata features journal, publisher, and subjects.
News media are an important source of scientific informa- tion for the public in domains such as health, medicine, and climate change research, making the accurate communica- tion of findings – and patterns of misinformation – a vi- tal issue for society and public policy (Geller, Bernhardt, and
Holtzman 2002; Boykoff and Boykoff 2004; Brechman, Lee, and Cappella 2009).
A substantial amount of scholarly attention has been devoted to studying the mechanisms by which academic research findings move along and through a chain of translation-oriented intermediaries, from journals anduniversitycommunicationsofficestoreportersandblog- gers and finally to citizen groups
and individual members of the public.
Journalists’ internal processes of selection and framing news are very significant, as they are an antecedent and structural factor that affects all subsequent issues of public attention.
Because parsing and interpreting the methods and results of highly technical scientific papers is a difficult task, journalists may use simple heuristics to determine whether research is novel and of high quality and impact, such as inspecting the name of the journal and the article subjects.
An even simpler explanation is that journalists may publish Copyright c (cid:13) 2018, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org).  All rights reserved.
on a subset of the press releases they read each day, either found on a press release aggregation website such as Eu- rekAlert.  or Science Daily or sent to them by media offices.
Discovering what sort of content journalists believe is sig- nificant and likely to be popular provides insight into how journalists judge the newsworthiness of different content, uncovering their biases and preferences, and helps shed light on high-profile issues being actively debated relating to
the “science of science communication” (National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine 2017).
Scholars who have studied the decision-making of jour- nalists in terms of story selection and framing have exam- ined various factors, from institutional and economic incen- tives to a need for social validation (Donsbach 2004).
In the realm of science, practices such as embargoing of scholarly findings and the attendant effects on communication have been examined, suggesting that certain science communica- tions and public relations strategies can influence news cov- erage (Kiernan 2003b).
Research has suggested that jour- nalists seldom choose to report on scientific studies outside of the domains of health and medicine (Suleski and Ibaraki 2009).
Issues of hype and errors of framing and omission have long plagued various forms of news media and science communication, with the cycle of hype sometimes begin- ning with researchers themselves using exaggerated terms such as “breakthrough” in press materials and public an- nouncements (Bubela et
al.
2009).  News reporting may then replicate the exaggerations found in such communi- cations materials (Sumner et al.  2014).
Further, news sto- ries, particularly those produced by elite outlets, may influ- ence the prestige of, and citations to, scientific research, fu- eling a hype cycle that is increasingly coming under scrutiny in the research and media communities (Kiernan 2003a; Caulfield et al.  2016).
Using the metadata supplied by Altmetric,1 we are able to find and crawl thousands of scientific article abstracts, press releases, and related news stories.
Previous work started their investigations from a small number of journals, a small number of university press offices, or a small number of me-.
Preparing students to be able to think critically is one of the key goals for many professionals in higher education, and it is also a quality sought by most employers of university graduates (Sulaiman, Rahman, & Dzulkifli, 2008).
Under a Thailand 4.0 vision, critical thinking skills are stated to be a key pillar among the goals for a new, knowledge-based economy (Jones & Pimdee, 2017).
These skills, however, are limited, as according to a recent study evaluating logical thinking and analytical skills, of 6,235 students in ten Thai provinces, the average final score was just 36.5%, with only 2.09% passing the exam (Rujivanarom, 2016).
Over 2,500 years ago Plato in his discussions of logic indicated that critical thinking is the tool that helps individuals find answers or solutions to a person’s confusions and problems (Thayer-Bacon, 1998).
Socrates, Plato’s teacher, believed that discussion and critical thinking with knowledge reside in the mind of the individual, rather than a teacher transmitting knowledge to a student (Ornstein & Levine, 2006).
Nearly 2,500 years later, scholars and educators are still discussing the mechanisms, importance, and outcomes of critical thinking skills (or lack thereof).
Contemporary evidence of the importance of critical thinking skills for employment has been provided from the National Association of Colleges and Employers [NACE] (2016) which indicated that critical thinking/problem-solving skills were ranked most important by the 144 surveyed employers (Table 1).
This is also consistent with the research results obtained by Bassham, Irwin, Nardone, and Wallace (2013) which indicated that college education is responsible for the development of critical thinking skills which, in their turn, lead to higher-order thinking.
This is also consistent with (Costa & Kallick, 2014) who stated that critical thinking skills are consistently included in all the lists of essentials behind college and career readiness (Kraisuth & Panjakajornsak, 2017).
__________________ (“Customer”) hereby authorizes and directs Rose & Kiernan, Inc.
(the “Agent”) to make monthly electronic fund transfers via the Automated Clearing House (“ACH”) from the Customer’s bank account noted below for the purposes of making payments with respect to Customer’s Dutchess County retiree premium contribution:.
retiree premium contribution by electronically transferring funds from Customer’s bank account referenced above.
Customer is responsible for any material provided by Customer’s bank regarding disclosures, rights and obligations associated with the automatic transfer of funds from Customer’s bank account.
If a scheduled transfer date falls on a weekend or legal bank holiday, the withdrawal will occur on the following business day.  Customer will check its bank account statement to verify the date and amount of any automatic transfers initiated by Agent.
In the event of an error, Customer will contact its bank and Agent immediately upon receipt of its bank account statement.  Insurance related charges and fees are subject to adjustments.
This authorization allows Agent to adjust the amount drafted from Customer’s bank account to accommodate these adjustments.
Customer has the right to stop an existing or future transfer of money by notifying Agent in writing, ten (10) business days prior to the draft date, and by notifying its financial institution.
Customer may permanently terminate this agreement at any time by notifying Agent in writing to that effect and by notifying its financial institution according to the procedures described in the financial institution’s disclosure.
Any such notice of termination shall not be effective as to any transfers initiated prior to Agent’s actual receipt of such notice.
If the bank returns a transfer unpaid, Agent shall have the right to assess an administrative fee.  Customer is then responsible for remitting the original payment, plus any fees assessed, with a check.
If the required payment becomes delinquent, Customer’s automatic payment option may, in Agent’s sole discretion, be suspended.  Agent reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to cancel this agreement for cause, which may include but not be limited to any of the following events:.
Customer hereby authorizes Agent, and Agent’s successors and assigns, to make all payments relating to Customer’s Dutchess County retiree premium contribution by electronically transferring funds from the account noted above.
The signature below indicates that Customer has read and fully understands this agreement.
ing sleep, or waking up too early, or sleep that is chronically nonrestorative or poor in quality.  B.  The above sleep difficulty occurs despite adequate opportunity and circumstances for sleep.  C.
At least one of the following forms of daytime impairment re- lated to the nighttime sleep difficulty is reported by the patient: 1.  Fatigue or malaise; 2.  Attention, concentration, or memory impairment; 3.  Social or vocational dysfunction or poor school performance; 4.
Mood disturbance or irritability; 5.  Daytime sleepiness; 6.  Motivation, energy, or initiative reduction; 7.  Proneness for errors/accidents at work or while driving; 8.  Tension, headaches, or gastrointestinal symptoms in re- sponse to sleep loss; and 9.  Concerns or worries about sleep.
veys, and frequent teleconference discussions, the expert panel identified consensus areas and recommendations for those areas not covered by AASM practice parameters.  Recommendations were generated by panel members and discussed by all.
To min- imize individual expert bias, the group anonymously voted and rated consensus recommendations from 1: strongly disagree to 9: strongly agree.  Consensus was defined when all experts rated a recommendation 8 or 9.
If consensus was not evident after the first vote, the consensus recommendations were discussed again, amended as appropriate, and a second anonymous vote was conducted.
If consensus was not evident after the second vote, the process was repeated until consensus was attained to include or exclude a recommendation.
AASM practice parameter papers are based on evidence- based review and grading of literature, often addressing a spe- cific issue or topic.  Clinical guidelines provide clinicians with a working overview for disease or disorder evaluation and man- agement.
These guidelines include practice parameter papers and also include areas with limited evidence in order to provide a comprehensive practice guideline.  Both practice parameters and clinical guidelines define principles of practice that should meet the needs of most patients.
They should not, however, be considered exhaustive, inclusive of all available methods of care, or exclusive of other methods of care reasonably expected to obtain the same results.
The ultimate judgment regarding appropriateness of any specific therapy must be made by the clinician and patient in light of the individual circumstances presented by the patient, available diagnostic tools, accessible.
treatment options, resources available, and other relevant fac- tors.  The AASM expects this clinical guideline to have an im- pact on professional behavior and patient outcomes.
It reflects the state of knowledge at the time of publication and will be reviewed, updated, and revised as new information becomes available.
“Insomnia” has been used in different contexts to refer to either a symptom or a specific disorder.
In this guideline, an insomnia disorder is defined as a subjective report of difficulty with sleep initiation, duration, consolidation, or quality that oc- curs despite adequate opportunity for sleep, and that result in some form of daytime impairment (Table 2).
Except where otherwise noted, the word “insomnia” refers to an insomnia disorder in this guideline.  Insomnia disorders have been categorized in various ways in different sleep disorder classification systems.
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders, 2nd Edition (ICSD-2) is used as the basis for insomnia classification in this guideline.
The ICSD-2 identifies insomnia as one of eight major categories of sleep disorders and, within this group, lists twelve specific in- somnia disorders (Table 3).
ICSD-2 delineates both general diagnostic criteria that apply to all insomnia disorders, as well as more specific criteria for each diagnosis.
Insomnia complaints may also occur in asso- ciation with comorbid disorders or other sleep disorder catego- ries, such as sleep related breathing disorders, circadian rhythm sleep disorders, and sleep related movement disorders.
Insomnia occurs in individuals of all ages and races, and has been observed across all cultures and countries.8,9 The actual prevalence of insomnia varies according to the stringency of the definition used.
Insomnia symptoms occur in approximately 33% to 50% of the adult population; insomnia symptoms with dis- tress or impairment (i.e., general insomnia disorder) in 10% to 15%; and specific insomnia disorders in 5% to 10%.10 Consis- tent risk factors for insomnia include increasing age, female sex,
comorbid (medical, psychiatric, sleep, and substance use) disor- ders, shift work, and possibly unemployment and lower socio- economic status.
Patients with comorbid medical and psychiatric conditions are at particularly increased risk, with psychiatric and chronic pain disorders having insomnia rates as high as 50% to 75%.11-13 The risk relationship between insomnia and psychiatric disorders appears to be bidirectional; several studies
have also.
istic option.  Clinical diagnosis offers the advantages of ease, speed, and low cost.  In areas where malaria is prevalent, clinical diagnosis usually results in all patients with fever and no apparent other cause being treated for malaria.
This approach can iden- tify most patients who truly need antimalarial treat- ment, but it is also likely to misclassify many who do not (15).  Over-diagnosis can be considerable and contributes to misuse of antimalarial drugs.  Considerable overlap exists between the signs and.
symptoms of malaria and other frequent diseases, especially acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI), and can greatly increase the frequency of misdiagnosis and mistreatment (16).
Attempts to improve the specificity of clinical diagnosis for malaria by including signs and symp- toms other than fever or history of fever have met with only minimal success (17).  The Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) pro- gramme defined an algorithm that has been devel-.
emergency action plan.
(C) Along with directly observed signs of potential concussion, if video review demonstrates findings such as LOC, motor incoor- dination or balance problems, or having a blank or vacant look, the athlete should be immediately removed from participation for evaluation.35–37 A healthcare professional
familiar with the athlete is best suited to detect subtle changes in the athlete’s personality or test performance that may suggest concussion.
If a concussion is suspected but not diagnosed, removal from play and serial evaluations are recommended.38 Concussion assessment should be performed in a distraction-free environ- ment with adequate time for examination and administration of.
concussion tests.  If it is clear an athlete has an SRC, additional sideline testing can be discontinued.  Sport-specific rules may not allow adequate time for evaluation, and modifying these rules remains an area for improvement within the governing bodies of some sports.
(C) When the sports medicine clinician becomes aware of a poten- tial injury, the athlete is approached and a brief history of the event is obtained from the athlete and those who witnessed the event or athlete behaviour.
How the athlete responds to the elements of orientation, memory, concentration and balance is evaluated, as well as speech patterns and how the athlete appears to be processing information.  Cervical palpation and range of motion (ROM) are also typically performed to assess for other.
All information on the form must be complete (fully filled in), accurate, and legible.  NAL reserves the right to refuse to process a payment if the form is incomplete, if there are errors in the information, or all or some of the information is unreadable.
All payments will be entered as paid on the date on which they are received.  Your receipt will be emailed to the address provided.
I authorize the above-named business to charge the credit card indicated in this authorization form according to the terms outlined above.  This authorization is for the payment described above, for the amount indicated above only, and is valid for one time use only.
I certify that I am an authorized user of this credit card and that I will not dispute the payment with my credit card company; so long as the transaction corresponds to the terms indicated in this form.
If you are aggrieved by this order, you have the right to request a hearing before the Board of Health.
This request must be made by either the owner of Victory Baptist Church or an authorized agent of Victory Baptist Church in writing, and filed with the Board of Health within seven (7) days after the date this Order was served or actually received.
Any affected party has the right to appear at said hearing.
Failure to comply with this order may result in additional penalties as permitted by law, including but not limited to, the filing of a complaint in District or Superior Court and any emergency court order(s) issued pursuant to any such complaint.
1 - Receita médica acompanhada de laudo circunstanciado do médico assistente, constando o tempo previsto necessário ao tratamento e, em se tratando de medicamento de uso contínuo, apresentar receita e laudo médico, com a devida indicação e validade máxima de doze meses, por meio de original na
primeira solicitação e cópia nas demais, admitindo-se cópia também quando se tratar de medicamento de uso controlado, inclusive na primeira solicitação; 2 - Nota fiscal, em primeira via e no original, sem rasuras, emitida em nome do respectivo beneficiário; 3 - Declaração do médico requisitante, no
caso de medicamentos importados, prescritos no Brasil, que somente serão reembolsados se inexistir similar nacional, ou, ainda, quando adquiridos a preços iguais ou inferiores a seu similar nacional, ou ainda, mesmo que exista similar nacional, caso sejam imprescindíveis às necessidades do paciente,
após análise da Coordenadoria de Saúde.
(Por favor, preencha completamente este formulário, assine-o e envie-o através do JOffice> Membros Apenas> Transferir Arquivos juntamente com uma fotocópia de um documento de identificação com uma foto do titular, uma fotocópia de frente e verso do cartão de crédito) .
Nome do Titular do Cartão ___________________________________________________ Fernando Bezerra Coelho.
prostate cancer primarily affects older men in whom the disease has less impact on indirect costs, such as productivity loss.  While it is also important to consider end-of-life costs associated with prostate cancer, there are limited end-of-life cost data in the literature (e.g.
the costs of palliative care, nursing homes, etc.).  Furthermore, investigating the impact of the physical and mental suffering both patients and relatives endure during prostate cancer.
MarketScan includes private sector health benefits claims and enrollment data from approximately 100 payers.  The dataset contains more than 35 million commercially insured lives.
The dataset consists of person-specific clinical utilization, expenditures and enrollment across inpatient, outpatient, prescription drug, and carve-out services from a selection of large employers, health plans, and government and public organizations.
The MarketScan databases link paid claims and encounter data to detailed patient demographic information across sites and types of providers over time.  We used years 2010-2014 for this analysis.
We identified patients with an initial cancer diagnosis in 2011. The date of service for the earliest identifying cancer claim in 2011 was designated the patient’s DIAGNOSIS DATE. Cancer patients were excluded from the study if they met any of the following conditions:
Cancer patients were identified as individuals with cancer ICD-9 codes in any position on qualified claims, which are described in the table below.
Patients were required to have a cancer ICD-9 code on one inpatient, or one observation, or two or more non-acute inpatient, outpatient, emergency department, or evaluation and management services that occur within 90 days of each other, and where the first of the two services (but not necessarily
both) was incurred in 2011.
Qualified claims were identified by the Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) or Revenue codes below:.
Apresentar a garantia de plena liberdade do participante da pesquisa para decidir sobre sua participação, podendo retirar seu consentimento (e sair da pesquisa), em qualquer fase da pesquisa, sem prejuízo algum.
Garantir que os dados coletados serão utilizados apenas para esta pesquisa e não serão armazenados para estudos futuros.
Caso os dados ou materiais forem armazenados para estudos futuros, deverá constar a informação sobre como e onde será o armazenamento e também que, em caso de utilização em estudos futuros, o projeto de pesquisa será submetido para análise de um Comitê de Ética em Pesquisa.
Garantia de que o participante da pesquisa receberá uma via do Termo de Consentimento Livre e Esclarecido e a informação de que o participante terá acesso ao registro do consentimento sempre que solicitado.
school. Your child needs to quarantine at home for 14 days after their last exposure to the individual who tested positive, which was . His/her estimated return to school after quarantine would be . This date could change if your child develops symptoms of COVID-19 or tests positive for COVID-19.
If your child develops any of these symptoms, please notify his/her school and contact your child’s doctor for evaluation and testing for COVID-19 infection.  Parents often have questions about testing their child after an exposure.
Testing is recommended if symptoms are present, but not recommended without symptoms.  A negative test does not release a student from quarantine or allow a return to in-person instruction.
If parents want to test their child in the absence of symptoms, we encourage waiting until seven days after exposure. If their child has a negative result; the student will still need to quarantine 14 days from last exposure. This is because it could take up to 14 days for symptoms to appear.
Having your child in quarantine does not require any restrictions with other household members unless your child is experiencing COVID-19 symptoms or has tested positive for COVID-19.
If your child develops symptoms or tests positive, household members should also quarantine and await further instruction from public health.
The analysis found that low-income countries could spend on average up to US$ 3800 per cancer patient annually on cancer medicines for all newly-diagnosed cancer patients, and the total expenditure on these medicines would be within the generously assumed 5% of the total health expenditure (Table
4.2).
In high- income countries, the analysis found that a budget threshold of 5% of the total health expenditure would allow a spending of up to US$ 40 600 on cancer medicines per patient per year, with a view to providing universal coverage.
For question (b), Table 4.3 (p.78) shows the estimated annual costs of standard treatment regimens for a select set of cancers, calculated based on the dosages recommended in clinical guidelines and the prices of cancer medicines in India, South Africa, Australia and the USA.
These countries were selected to illustrate prices of medicines in countries of different economies and with different levels of price regulations.
The analysis found that the estimated treatment costs frequently exceeded the per-patient annual "budgets" estimated in question (a), despite the generous assumptions of 1% to 5% of total health budget being spent.
on cancer medicines (alone).
For example, the treatment cost for one patient with chronic myeloid leukaemia for a year would be between US$ 800 and US$ 96 700 for imatinib and US$ 800 to US$ 109 400 for dasatinib, which are higher than the per-person budget of US$ 800 to US$ 40 600 estimated in Table 4.2.
The unaffordability was even more prominent when considering the standard treatment regimen for early stage HER2- positive breast cancer, where the estimated costs ranged between US$ 18 500 and US$ 71 000.
These examples suggest that, at current prices, universal coverage of cancer medicines (alone) will greatly exceed 5% of total expenditure on health care.  This is unaffordable and unsustainable.
• General Regulation: All persons operating motor vehicles on the Brockport campus are responsible for knowing and understanding the rules, regulations and policies on campus.  Ignorance of the contents of these rules is neither excuse nor extenuation for violations.
• A parking permit carries no guarantee or liability of the College to provide the holder at any given time with a parking space and the College cannot accept any responsibility for damage to or theft of any motor vehicle or its contents while parked on campus.
Complete each item on this form and print information.  You will be allowed to register one vehicle at no cost to you.  Please include payment of $24.45 should you opt to register a second vehicle.
Tis permit will allow you to park in any lot with the exceptions of service, reserved, and metered areas.  Please note: If at anytime you return as an employee or contractor a fee will be assessed for your parking privileges.  However, you may retain your retiree permit.
Replacement permits are $24.45.  Print information, sign and return completed form to:.
1.
Fica assegurado o reembolso nos limites das obrigações contratuais das despesas pelo beneficiário com assistência odontológica, nos casos de urgência ou emergência, quando não for possível a utilização dos serviços próprios, contratados, credenciados ou referenciados do plano e o acesso a livre
escolha de prestadores não participantes da rede credenciada.
4.  Os reembolsos são pagáveis conforme cronograma estipulado pela CAPESESP, após a entrega da documentação adequada, sendo os valores reembolsados de acordo com a Tabela de Pro- cedimentos Odontológicos praticada pela CAPESESP.  5.
Para o pagamento de reembolso é necessária a apresentação da documentação original abaixo, devidamente preenchida e assinada pelo titular, no prazo máximo de 01 ano contado da realização do evento ou da finalização do tratamento.
Na Nota Fiscal de serviços devem constar a devida identificação da instituição, com nome, número CGC, número da inscrição estadual, número da inscrição municipal e endereço, bem como a discriminação do nome do paciente atendido, os eventos realizados, seus respectivos valores unitários ou totais e a
data do atendimento.
6.  Identify the efflorescence.  Knowing the composition of efflorescing salts is sometimes of use.  Table 1, taken from Brownell’s report lists the most probable sources of efflorescing salts.
Commercial testing laboratories can use X-ray diffraction, petrographic analysis or chemical analysis can, in some instances, determine both the type of salts present and their relative quantity.  7.  Consider miscellaneous sources of water when all obvious sources have been eliminated.
Some of these sources are: condensation within the wall, poorly directed landscape sprinklers, leaky pipes, faulty drains and condensation on heating or plumbing pipes.  If necessary, condensation analysis methods are described in Technical Note 47.
When the mechanisms causing the efflorescing salts to appear have been established and the sources of salts or moisture are identified (usually the latter), suitable corrections must be addressed.
Solutions to efflorescence prob- lems usually involve reducing water penetration into the masonry and removing the efflorescence from the wall.  Recommendations for the correction of water penetration in masonry walls are contained in Technical Note 46.
It is usually not advisable to wash efflores- cence off of the brickwork except in warm, dry weather, since this results in the availability of considerably more moisture which may bring more salts to the surface.  Many efflorescing salts can be removed by dry brushing.
For recommendations concerning removing efflorescence and other stains on masonry walls, see Technical Note 20.  Special care should be exercised in cleaning new masonry, since improper procedures and errors can contribute to or cause efflorescence or stains.
Clear water repellents, silicone and acrylic coatings are among the solutions often sug- gested for preventing efflorescence.  A coating may prevent efflorescence from recurring by reducing the amount of water absorbed by an exposed masonry surface.
However, applying a coating to brickwork that has a tendency to effloresce, without stopping the mechanisms causing that efflorescence, may lead to deg- radation of the masonry.  Further, applying a coating that inhibits evaporation of water from the masonry may also lead to degradation.
As water and dissolved salts within masonry travel toward a coated exterior surface, they may be stopped at the inner margin of the coating (usually 1/ 8 to 1/ 4 in.  [3 to 6 mm] below the surface).
At this point, the water will evapo- rate, passing through the treated area as vapor and soluble salts in the water will be deposited within the mason- ry.
Known as cryptoflorescnece or subflorescence, salts that crystallize within masonry can develop tremendous pressures which may result in brick spalling.  For this reason, coatings are not recommended as the sole treatment for efflorescence problems.
*MCP (cid:2) metacarpophalangeal; RF (cid:2) rheumatoid factor; ACPA (cid:2) anti(cid:3)citrullinated protein antibody.
†Derived from odds ratios from the multivariate regression model, and interpreted as the increase in the odds of having rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with as opposed to without the respective feature (e.g., weight of 1.5 for swelling of proximal interphalangeal [PIP] joints means that the odds of having
RA is 1.5-fold in patients with as opposed to patients without swelling of a PIP joint).
Phase 1.  The aim of Phase 1 was to identify the contributions of clinical and laboratory variables that in practice were the most predictive of the decision to initiate DMARD therapy in a population of patients with early undifferentiated synovitis.
Initiation of DMARD therapy was used as an indicator of the physician’s opinion that the patient was at risk of developing persistent and/or erosive arthritis that we would currently consider to be RA.
Data on 3,115 patients from 9 early arthritis cohorts who were consid- ered not to have evidence of another possible diagnosis explaining their presentation were obtained.
Between July 2007 and November 2008 an expert working group developed an analysis strategy that related an agreed- upon list of standardized clinical and laboratory vari- ables collected at baseline to the initiation of DMARD treatment within the next 12 months.
MTX initiation was used as the gold standard for this purpose.
The analytical process aimed to identify the independent contribution of each variable on this list and included univariate regression modeling, a subsequent principal components analysis, and a multivariate regression model that included all identified components (25).
The resulting list of informative variables identified during that process and the weights based on the odds ratios are shown in Table 1.  Phase 2.  Phase 2 consisted of a consensus-based, decision science–informed approach, which took place between November 2008 and June 2009.
The purpose of this phase was to derive a clinician-based judgment on.
the relative contribution of clinical and laboratory fac- tors deemed to be important in influencing the proba- bility of developing “persistent inflammatory and/or erosive arthritis that is currently considered to be RA” (hereinafter referred to as “developing RA”).
An expert panel was assembled, comprising 12 rheumatologists from Europe and 12 from North Amer- ica with extensive experience in the diagnosis and man- agement of RA.
They provided real-life case scenarios of patients with early undifferentiated inflammatory arthri- tis representing low to high probability of developing RA.
A 2-day workshop was held in May 2009 in which domains (factors) and categories within those domains that were important in determining the probability of developing RA were identified.  When appropriate, these judgments were informed by the results of Phase 1 and other available literature.
The relative importance or weights of these domains and their categories were determined by means of decision science theory and conjoint adaptive technology, using the computerized 1000Minds program (www.1000minds.com) in an inter- active and iterative process (26).
This analysis permitted the calculation of an individual’s score of the likelihood of developing RA from 0 to 100, where a higher score indicated greater likelihood of RA development.  The domains, categories, and weights derived during that initial process are shown in Table 2.
Objectives of Phase 3.
In Phase 3 the working group integrated the findings of the first 2 phases, refined the scoring system, and determined the optimal cut point to define “definite RA.” The goal of this final phase was to utilize the results of Phases 1 and 2 to develop a scoring system that would be applicable to
newly presenting patients with undifferentiated inflam- matory arthritis to permit identification of those with a high probability of developing persistent and/or erosive RA.
Being intended for use with newly presenting patients, the scoring system should be robust enough that it could be applied repeatedly during the early course of disease, such that a patient identified as not classifiable as having definite RA at initial presentation might be classified as having
definite RA at a subsequent time point.
The work was not aimed at classifying subjects with established disease, either active or inac- tive.  However, the working group recognized that pa- tients may present for the first time with disease that is at a later stage and being treated.
Thus, although it was not the explicit charge of the working group to provide.
“Declaro, para os devidos fins, tendo sido aprovado na disciplina/área objeto de seleção de Monitoria, que não sou detentor de cargo público de qualquer natureza, não recebo nenhum outro tipo de bolsa pela UFAL ou de outros órgãos financiadores, e que estou ciente das minhas atribuições como
Monitor, comprometendo-me a cumpri-las fielmente.”.
I hereby authorize the Green Mountain Higher Education Consortium (GMHEC) and its member institutions, Champlain College, Middlebury College, and Saint Michael’s College (Consortium), to process my payment via direct deposit into my bank account.
I acknowledge that the origination of ACH transactions to my accounts must comply with the provisions of U.S.  law and that the Consortium will comply at all times with the National Automated Clearing House Association’s rules (NACHA).
For further information on these rules, please contact your financial institution.  I understand that the Consortium will reverse any payments made to my account in error.  I further understand that I will provide an email below in order to receive notification of payments.
This authorization will remain in effect until I notify the Accounts Payable Office at ap@gmhec.org.
disease symptoms associated with DENV infection in the field, timely identification of US Service Members infected with DENV provides for “rapid and appropriate patient management decisions” such as supportive care therapies and medical evacuation [25].
Identification and diagnosis of DENV infection within Service Members has been done in the last 20 years with the use Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) technology.  The “Ruggedized” Advanced Pathogen Identification Device (RAPID) PCR platform.
Business & Industry to charge my credit card above MONTHLY for membership dues on the first business day of each month; and as needed for other agreed upon purchases. I understand that my information will be saved to file for future transactions on my account.
Dear Parent(s) or Guardian(s): In accordance with state and federal law, school districts in California are required to annually assess the language proficiency of all students whose home language is not English.
Your child has been given an annual California English Language Development Test (CELDT).  Each year, we are required by law to notify you of your child’s proficiency level in English.  Your child’s results are enclosed.
1 - É de responsabilidade do(a) candidato(a) informar ao médico, antes da expedição do atestado, os quesitos que devem ser avaliados, conforme descrito no Edital nº 01-CADETE PMPR-2020 (regulador do certame), que em caso de dúvida pode ser consultado no site: www.nc.ufpr.br.
2 - Atentar para o prazo de validade do atestado médico: deverá ser inferior ou igual a 90 (noventa) dias da sua apresentação, sob pena de desclassificação no concurso.
3 - Para candidatos já submetidos à cirurgia refrativa, deverá também fazer e acompanhar o atestado, a topografia de córnea e paquimetria.
4 - O presente Anexo trata-se de mero modelo, podendo ser utilizado outros termos no atestado, desde que contemple todos os quesitos descritos no Edital nº 01-CADETE PMPR- 2020 (regulador do certame).
praticado pela equipe médica, mas sim um ato livre e soberano da autonomia do paciente.
O exercício, por parte do paciente, deste seu direito, a partir do momento em que deixar o hospital, isenta o médico e a instituição da responsabilidade por quaisquer consequências adversas à saúde diretamente relacionadas a esta alta.
Cabe ao médico, com apoio da equipe multiprofissional, explicar em linguagem acessível ao paciente e/ou responsável, o diagnóstico, suas condições clínicas, possibilidades terapêuticas e as consequências de interrupção da assistência médica, especificando possíveis riscos e danos.  Assim:.
1.  Considerando o direito de recusar o atendimento ou procedimentos propostos para meu tratamento de deixar as dependências do hospital, mesmo sabendo das possíveis consequências e riscos de tal atitude; 2.
Considerando a alta a pedido não constitui ato que tenha sido indicado ou praticado pela equipe médica, mas sim um ato livre e soberano da minha autonomia; 3.
Considerando que o exercício deste meu direito, a partir do momento em que deixar o hospital, isenta o médico e a Instituição da responsabilidade por quaisquer consequências adversas à minha saúde diretamente relacionadas a esta alta;.
4.  Considerando que mesmo tendo o médico, com o apoio da equipe multiprofissional, explicado em linguagem acessível, o diagnóstico, suas condições clínicas, possibilidades terapêuticas e as consequências da interrupção da assistência médica, especificando possíveis riscos e danos; 5.
Considerando que a alta a pedido desobriga o Médico de dar continuidade ao tratamento, bem como de emitir receita, solicitação de exames e encaminhamento para outro estabelecimento;.
Trainee applicants are required to submit a statement giving the type, place, and duration period of their training.  Applicants are eligible for Trainee membership status while in training.  Without a completed verification statement, your application cannot be presented for final approval.
This statement will also be required upon renewal of your membership.
of the introductions contain a single move: BESP1 only contains Move 1 whereas BESP3 and BESP8 only contain Move 3.  None of them follow a strict M1–M2–M3 sequence.  The only sequence that is repeated is M1–M3, which occurs four times.
In summary, RAIs in The ESPecialist do not seem to follow a pattern in the organization of their rhetorical moves although there seems to be a preference for the M1–M3 type.
In this type of structural organization, the authors establish a territory (by making topic generalizations and giving background information, for example) and then present their current study (by announcing the present research and indicating the structure of the article, for example).
The ESPj RAIs, on the other hand, follow the pattern proposed by the CARS model more closely.  Three of them follow the M1–M2–M3 sequence strictly while five others (i.e., ESPj3, ESPj5, ESPj7, ESPj8 and ESPj9) contain this sequence plus a repetition of one or more moves.
Among these, ESPj5, ESPj7 and ESPj8 show very little variation from the canonical sequence: ESPj5 contains a one-sentence Move 1 between a 7-sentence Move 2 and a 7-sentence Move 3 while ESPj7 and ESPj8 each contain two instances of Move 2, establishing the niche in two separate installments.
With the exception of ESPj2, all the RAIs in this corpus contain a Move 2, and there was only one instance (i.e., ESPj1) of Move 3-fronting.  ESPj1 did not contain a Move 1 either, being, overall, the introduction that was the most dissimilar from the model.
The findings reported above seem to suggest that there are important differences in the rhetorical organi- zation of introductions in Brazilian Portuguese articles from The ESPecialist and articles from English for Specific Purposes.
While the latter fits the proposed moves in the CARS model closely, the former has been shown to vary from it somewhat.
It is worth noting that both journals specialize in the same subfield of Applied Linguistics, a claim supported not only by the names of these journals, but also by the similar editorial policies they hold (see Appendix C).
Even though English for Specific Purposes reaches a wider inter- national readership by being published in English, the current academic lingua franca (Duszak & Lewkowicz, 2008), both journals started publication in the same year and can, therefore, be considered to have a similar level of maturity
and tradition, at least in the eyes of the audience they reach.
In this sense, the distinction made by Samraj (2005) between established fields and emerging fields of inquiry would not help explain the differences between the two sets of introductions analyzed in this study.
It seems, thus, that the differences found would have to be attributed to cross-linguistic/cross-cultural reasons.  The most striking difference between the BESP and the ESPj RAIs lies in the pervasive absence of Move 2 in the former.
Other studies that looked at RAIs in languages other than English have found a similar pattern.  As mentioned above, Jogthong (2001) reported an absence of Move 2 in 45% of the Thai articles studied while in Ahmad’s (1997) corpus of Malay RAIs 35% lacked a Move 2.
In the present study, 70% of the RAIs in Portuguese did not contain this move, while only 10% of those in English lacked it.
Reembolso é o ressarcimento das despesas decorrentes dos atendimentos ocorridos na área de abrangência geográfica da cobertura contratual sempre que não for possível a utilização dos serviços de prestadores da rede credenciada de cada plano.
Para os planos que não possuem Livre Escolha (reembolso), os beneficiários deverão entrar em contato com o SAC buscando uma alternativa de atendimento no município onde o serviço ou o procedimento for demandado, desde que dentro da área de abrangência do Plano.
O prazo para resposta é de até 7 (sete) dias úteis após a solicitação, caso não haja solução a Operadora concederá autorização de reembolso, sendo necessário apresentar o número de protocolo disponibilizado pela Central de Atendimento no contato inicial.
Os beneficiários dos produtos 160 PLUS, 180 PLUS, 318 EXECUTIVO I e 318 EXECUTIVO II, poderão escolher qualquer prestador de serviços legalmente habilitado, que não sejam integrantes da rede credenciada para a realização dos procedimentos cobertos, ao qual pagará diretamente pelo serviço,
solicitando posteriormente o reembolso, sendo que o ressarcimento dos valores obedecerá ao limite do plano contratado.
O beneficiário titular declara que as informações constantes no pedido de reembolso são verdadeiras, estando ciente de que a não autenticidade dos documentos ou a omissão de qualquer informação, na tentativa de obter vantagem indevida, constitui fraude contra a Operadora, sujeito a perda do direito
ao reembolso, cancelamento do plano de saúde e implicações judiciais, além de que o fato será imediatamente comunicado ao empregador (RH) e/ou representante legal da Pessoa Jurídica contratante do plano de saúde.
As principais irregularidades não admitidas são: desdobramento de recibos; recibos de atendimento de pessoas diversas (não beneficiários do plano); recibos de atendimento de terceiros (ainda que conste o beneficiário como pagador); recibos falsos, adul- terados ou rasurados.
Lembramos ainda que este rol não é taxativo, mas sim exemplificativo.  A Operadora reserva-se no direito de contatar o prestador de serviços, emitente do recibo, sempre que julgar necessário, para comprovar e atestar a veracidade das informações.
Para receber o reembolso é obrigatória a apresentação deste formulário devidamente preenchido, assim como a documentação exigida (check-list no verso) para cada tipo de serviço.
A análise da solicitação e o reembolso serão efetuados no prazo de 30 dias a partir da data do recebimento da docu- mentação na Life Empresarial Saúde.
• This is not a registration form.  All registrations must be completed on our website willamalane.org, in person at Bob Keefer Center or by calling 541.736.4544.  To receive the discounted price, this form needs to be submitted and processed prior to registration.
• All registration fees must be paid directly to Willamalane.  Payment is collected at time of registration.  This can occur at Bob Keefer Center, on-line or over the phone.
Sintomas que apresentou: ( )febre ( )tosse ( )dor de garganta ( )dispnéia ( )outro Data do início dos sintomas: ___/____/_______ Término: ___/___/_____ Data do afastamento do serviço: início ___/___/____ Término: ___/___/______ 03 03 1998 03 03 1999 03 03 1999 03 05 1999
( ) FSR do HBMPA: 2° andar do Centro Clínico do HBMPA, sito à rua Castro de Menezes 301, Cristal, Porto Alegre. O agendamento para realização dos ​testes rápidos de anticorpos será pelo número (51) 98594-6200 (telefone/WhattsApp), de segunda a sexta-feira, das 8-16h.
Sleep-inducing drugs (hypnotics) are medications specif- ically designed to induce sleepiness directly after intake.  Optimal agents affect cognitive performance during this period while inducing minimal sleepiness in the waking day after use.
An optimal hypnotic would have low tox- icity and addictive potential, as well a minimal side effect profile (Oswald 1970).
Among the first hypnotics, and an agent still in use is chloral hydrate - the original “Mickey Finn” - slipped into the drinks of unsuspecting marks for the purposes of criminal activity.
Unfortu- nately, this medication is difficult to use since the LD-50 (potentially fatal dose) is quite close to the therapeutic dose.  In the years leading up to the 1970’s, rapidly acting barbiturates were commonly utilized for their hypnotic effects.
Unfortunately, these medications, also drugs of abuse, had a significant danger of overdose and contrib- uted to an era that was characterized in part by deaths due to overdoses of sleeping pills.
These medications and similar barbiturate-like medications [Methaqualone (Quaalude, Sopor) Glutethimide (Doriden), Ethchlor- vynol (Placidyl), Methyprylon (Nodudar)] have limited availability and are rarely used due to limited efficacy, cognitive effects, the potential for abuse and lethal tox-
icity associated with overdose (Oswald 1970).
Today their primary therapeutic uses include executions and fa- cilitated euthanasia (Lossignol 2008).  Most currently utilized hypnotics affect the widely dis- persed negative neurotransmitter GABA.  In the 1970’s benzodiazepines (GABA agonists) were first marketed as hypnotics.
Some of these agents had an extremely short duration of action [Triazolam (Halcion)].  While this agent-induced minimal next day somnolence, use was as- sociated with daytime memory impairment, particularly at higher dosages (Roehrs et al.  2000; Adam and Oswald.
1989).  In the 1990’s newer agents were developed and marketed that had selective effects on GABA receptors in- cluding Zolpidem (Ambien), Zaleplon (Sonata), Eszopi- clone (Estorra) and Indiplon.
While all hypnotics have abuse potential for individuals with addictive histories and personalities, these agents have been noted to have min- imal additive potential (Hajak et al.  2003).
These agents are less likely to have deleterious side effects than most OTC treatments for insomnia, however, with increased use, more side effects including next effects on driving have been reported.
This effect as well as next day re- bound insomnia has particularly been reported for higher doses of zolpidem (Verster et al.  2002).  In many cases, MVA’s occurred in the period of somnolence and cogni- tive impairment during the first few hours after ingestion.
Comparatively normal results on psychomotor tests can be obtained 3.25 h.  after zaleplon ingestion and 6.25 h.  after zopiclone ingestion (Paul et al.  2003).  While these agents have excellent efficacy with minimal side effects, at higher doses these agents can exhibit benzodiazepine-like effects.
Idiosyncratic reactions of persistent daytime som- nolence and/or memory loss have been reported.  Some patients will report next day sedation after the nighttime use of these agents, as well as demonstrate an increased error rate in driving tests (Verster et al.  2007).
Such infor- mation was forthcoming only after these drugs became generic and widely utilized in clinical practice.  Most sedat- ing drugs if adopted into such widespread use would also be at least as likely to demonstrate epidemiological effects on MVA’s and MVA associated deaths.
In the elderly, chronic use of sedating drugs (particularly those with anti-cholinergic side effects) can be associated with an increased risk for falls, and confusion (American Geriatrics Society 2015).
Reported next day sleepiness and other side effects associated with hypnotic use are summarized in Table 3.  The newer GABA-effective hypnotics are the only medications with demonstrated effectiveness in treating chronic insomnia (NIH State of the Science Conference.
Pain assessment involves more than just quantifying theintensityofpain.Highpainintensityratingsorbehav- ioralscalescoresthatdonotrespondtousualcareshould be investigated to determine whether the pain might be due to a new medical issue or surgical complication and the potential role of opioid
tolerance and psychological distress.
Assessment should determine what interven- tions have been effective for the pain, how the pain af- fects function, the type of pain (eg, neuropathic, visceral, somatic, muscle spasms), and whether there are barriers to effective pain management, such as cultural
orlanguagedifferences,cognitivedeficits,orpatientmis- conceptions about pain management (Table 2).
In addi- tion, it is not sufficient to assess pain only at rest.  Pain that is relativelywell controlled at rest canbe severe dur- ing movement or with specific activities that cause increased pain (eg, swallowing after tonsillectomy), with important implications for symptom management and recovery.
The panel suggests that clinicians assess pain at rest and with activities, as the latter is often more severe and difficult to control than pain at rest.110,270 Presence of pain with activity has important implications for use of additional interventions and discharge planning.
For example, pain that is well controlled at rest but severe with movement can have major effects on a patient’s ability to participate in postsurgical rehabilitation and return to normal function, and pain with swallowing after tonsillectomy could increase risk for dehydration.
Assessments for other clinical issues such as sedation, delirium, and nausea or other side effects related to interventions are also important to help guide decisions regarding adjustmentofthe postoperativepain management plan.
There is insufficient evidence to guide firm recom- mendations on optimal timing or frequency of patient reassessments in the postoperative setting.
The timing of assessments after administration of an intervention should be informed by the time to achieve peak ef- fects, which is typically 15 to 30 minutes after paren- teral drug therapy or 1 to 2 hours after administration of an oral analgesic.
With nonpharma- cologic interventions, pain relief often occurs during or immediately after their application.
The optimal fre- quency of reassessment is likely to depend on a num- ber of factors, including the type of surgical procedure, the adequacy of initial pain relief, the pres- ence of side effects, presence of comorbidities, and.
changes in clinical status.  Reassessments might be per- formed less frequently for patients with more stable pain (eg, patients who have exhibited good pain con- trol without side effects after 24 hours of stable ther- apy).
Pain reassessments might be useful at the time of nursing shift changes or with new caregivers to establish a baseline and promote continuity of care, although evidence showing that routine reassessment of pain at nursing shift changes is associated with improved clinical outcomes is not available.
(cid:2) The panel recommends that clinicians offer multi- modal analgesia, or the use of a variety of analgesic medications and techniques combined with non- pharmacological interventions, for the treatment of postoperative pain in children and adults (strong recommendation, high-quality evidence).
Multimodal analgesia, defined as the use of a variety of analgesic medication and techniques that target different mechanisms of action in the peripheral and/or central nervous system (which might also be combined with nonpharmacological interventions) might have ad-
ditiveorsynergisticeffectsandmoreeffectivepainrelief compared with single-modality interventions.
For example, clinicians might offer local anesthetic-based regional (peripheral and neuraxial) analgesic techniques in combination with systemic opioids and other analge- sics as part of a multimodal approach to perioperative pain.
Because of the availability of effective nonopioid analgesics and nonpharmacologic therapies for postop- erative pain management, the panel suggests that clini- cians routinely incorporate around the clock nonopioid analgesics and nonpharmacologic therapies into multi- modal analgesia regimens.
Systemic opioids might not be required in all patients.  One study suggests that it shouldbeavoidedwhennotneeded,becauselimitedev- idence suggests that perioperative opioid therapy might be associated with increased likelihood of long-term opioid use, with its attendant risks.4.
T here are two main distinctions between osteopathic and allopathic physicians.  The first, more obvious difference lies in the osteopathic physicians’ use of osteopathic manipulative medicine (OMM).
While OMM is most commonly known by the general public to treat neuromusculoskeletal injury, DOs may utilize it in their diagnosis and treatment of disease involving internal organs and all other parts of the body as well.
The other, more subtle – and arguably more important – distinction between the two professions is that osteopathic medicine offers a concise philosophy on which all clinical practice is based.
Central to this philosophy is the belief that the body has an inherent healing mechanism that allows it to maintain health, resist illness, and recover from disease processes.  The goal of osteopathic medical treatment is.
1.  The body is completely united; the person is a fully inte- grated being of body, mind and spirit.  No single part of the body functions independently.  Each separate part is interconnected with all others and serves to benefit the collective whole of the person.
Alterations in any part of the system, including an individual’s mental and spiritual health, affect the function of the body as a whole and all other parts therein.
and health-maintenance.  Health is the natural state of the body, and the body possesses complex, homeo- static, self-regulatory mechanisms that it uses to heal itself from injury.
In times of disease, when a part of the body is functioning sub-optimally, other parts of the body come out of their natural state of health in order to compensate for the dysfunction.  During this compensatory process, however, new dysfunctions may arise.
Osteopathic physicians must work to adjust the body so as to realign its parts back to normal.  Osteopathic manipulative medicine aims to restore the body’s self-healing capacity by decreasing allo- static load, or the physiologic effects of chronic bodily stresses,1 and enhancing the immune system.
3.  Structure and function are reciprocally interrelated.  The structure of a body part governs its function, and thus abnormal structure manifests as dysfunction.  Func- tion also governs structure.
In addition, if the body’s overall structure is suboptimal, its functioning and capacity for self-healing will be inhibited as well.
The Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) initiated population-based sentinel surveillance for CRAB in Hennepin and Ramsey counties in 2011.
This letter is to inform you that MDH will be expanding surveillance to include statewide reporting of carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (CRAB), beginning March 1, 2020.  MDH will be conducting this surveillance pursuant to Minnesota Rules 4605.7000 to 4605.7900.
Specifically, Minnesota Rules, 4605.7080, permits the Commissioner of Health to require reporting of newly recognized or emerging diseases and syndromes suspected to be of infectious origin or previously controlled or eradicated infectious disease if certain criteria are met.
Documentation on the approved proposal for this change as well as details on CRAB reporting and information for laboratories is available at Carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (CRAB) (https://www.health.state.mn.us/diseases/crab/index.html).
In 2019, the MDH Public Health Laboratory (MDH-PHL) implemented a multiplex real-time PCR that detects three CRAB-specific carbapenemase genes (OXA-23, OXA-24, and OXA-58).
The MDH-PHL currently tests all CRAB isolates received through sentinel surveillance for OXA-23, OXA-24, and OXA-58, along with five other carbapenemase genes (KPC, NDM, OXA-48, IMP, and VIM).
Approximately 20% of the CRAB isolates tested from Minnesota facilities are carbapenemase-producing (CP), with the majority producing OXA-23 or OXA-24.
Rapid identification of CP-CRAB and immediate implementation of infection control measures are key to controlling transmission in health care facilities.
The case definition for reporting includes CRAB isolated from any body site that is resistant to any carbapenem based on current Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute guidelines, or that demonstrates the presence or production of a carbapenemase, if such testing is done.
Statewide surveillance for CRAB will include the submission of isolates to the MDH-PHL for further characterization, the submission of susceptibility and other specimen test results, and demographic and clinical case report information.
O atestado para ser aceito deve estar legível, sem rasuras e conter obrigatoriamente: O Nome completo do servidor; Período de dias de afastamento; nome da patologia conforme Código Internacional de Doenças (CID); número do Conselho Regional de Medicina (CRM) ou número do Conselho Regional de
Odontologia (CRO), identificação do servidor e do profissional emitente, tempo de afastamento e data.
By signing this form, you give us permission to charge your account for the amount indicated on or after the indicated date. This is permission for a single transaction only, and does not provide authorization for any additional, unrelated debits or credits to your account.
I authorize the above named business to charge the credit card indicated in this authorization form according to the terms outlined above.  This payment authorization is for the goods/services described above, for the amount indicated above only, and is valid for one time use only.
I certify that I am an authorized user of this credit card and that I will not dispute the payment with my credit card company; so long as the transaction corresponds to the terms indicated on this form.
warming or internet commerce” and the need for social and natural scientists to “forget about what separates them and start looking at those ‘things’ whose hybrid nature has, for many dec- ades now, already unified them in practice.” Arguably, the economic nature of human activity (represented by
lines representing different streams of literature in Figure 1) has changed substan- tively on account of two revolutions in work practice, namely, the industrial and knowledge revo- lutions, which enabled radically enhanced productivity improvements and a sea change in social theory in their wake.
It is suggested here that societal, business, and biomedical ethics are not in- dependent of these changes, and that the post-industrial paradigm, with its ethics premised on social theory developed in response to industrialisation, has been disrupted by a further productiv- ity revolution which has
increased the returns to knowledge in production, and that divergence has occurred between ethical thought premised on industrialised logics and a new ethics based on exponential increases in the power of knowledge to generate social and scientific change.
The emergence of new forms of enterprise, discussed earlier in reference to sale of human tissues, and new forms of biotechnology, such as genetic engineering, are simply examples of this diver- gence, which arguably requires new thinking around how to radically increase transparency and
accountability, as emergent technologies enable not only radically improved potential for innova- tion but also increasing connectivity between human stakeholders who are directly affected by these developments.
This divergence arguably places bioethicists, and education and profession- alization of bioethics (White et al., 2014) at the forefront of strategic response to radical advances in biomedicine to come.
However, given the uncertainty of ‘wicked’ problems (Rittel & Webber, 1973) related to complexity of human values negotiation over increasingly beneficial and hazard- ous potentialities, the last line of ethical resource might be the democratic population itself.
Abstract: Biomedical Informatics can be defined as “the interdisciplinary field that studies and pursues the effective use of biomedical data, information and knowledge for scientific inquiry, problem solving, and decision making, motivated by efforts to improve human health.” However, professionals
in the life sciences are facing an increasing quantity of highly complex, multi-dimensional and weakly structured data.
While researchers in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and Knowledge Discovery in Databases (KDD) have for long been working independently to develop methods that can support expert end users to identify, extract and understand information out of this data, it is obvious that an interdisciplinary
approach to bring these two fields closer together can yield synergies in the application of these methods to weakly structured complex medical data sets.
The aim is to support end users to learn how to interactively analyse information properties and to visualize the most relevant parts – in order to gain knowledge, and finally wisdom, to support a smarter decision making.
The danger is not only to get overwhelmed by increasing masses of data, moreover, there is the risk of modelling artifacts.
Data exploration has recently been hailed as the fourth paradigm in the investigation of nature, after empiricism, theory and computation (Bell, Hey & Szalay, 2009).  Whether in astronomy or the life sciences, the flood of data requires sophisticated methods of handling.
For example, researchers in bioinformatics collect, process and analyze masses of data, or in computational biology, they simulate biological systems, metabolic pathways, the behavior of a cell or how a protein is built (Hey, Tansley & Tolle, 2009).
In clinical medicine, the end users are confronted with increased volumes of highly complex, noisy, high-dimensional, multivariate and often weakly- structured data (Holzinger, 2011c).
The field of biomedical informatics concerns the information processing by both humans and computers, dealing with biomedical complexity (Patel, Kahol & Buchman, 2011) to support decision making which is still a central topic in biomedical informatics (Shortliffe, 2011).
Whereas Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) concentrates on human intelligence, and Knowledge Discovery in Data Mining (KDD) concentrates on machine intelligence, the grand challenge is to combine these diverse fields to support the expert end users in learning to interactively analyze information
properties thus enabling them to visualize the relevant parts of their data.
In other words, to enable effective human control over powerful machine intelligence and to integrate statistical methods with information visualization, to support human insight and decision making (Holzinger, 2011a).
The broad application of business enterprise hospital information systems amasses large amounts of medical documents, which must be reviewed, observed, and analyzed by human experts (Holzinger et al., 2008a).
All essential documents of the patient records contain a certain portion of data which has been entered in non- standardized format (aka free text).
Although text can easily be created by the end users, the support of automatic analysis is extremely difficult (Gregory, Mattison & Linde, 1995), (Holzinger et al., 2000), (Lovis, Baud & Planche, 2000).
If no benefits are otherwise payable to a surviving spouse or child of a deceased member, the member’s accumulated contributions, if any remain, shall be paid in a lump sum to a named beneficiary or if none to the member’s estate.
A further example is the pricing of sofosbuvir (Sovaldi) – a medicine used for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection, potentially preventing future cases of liver cancer.  Fig.
3.3 (p.23) shows the timeline of price planning for Sovaldi based on information presented in the report by the Committee on Finance of the United States Senate (100).
In this case, it shows the evolution of the expected price of Sovaldi from prior to its acquisition (<US$ 50 000 per course) to the final launch price of US$ 84 000 per course.
The final price was decided based on an anticipated rise in revenue even though the manufacturer expected the number of patients receiving the medicine would decline (p.43) (100), and various stakeholders would react negatively to the firm’s final pricing of the product.
Furthermore, the manufacturer set a high price for Sovaldi with a view to consolidate the market’s price expectation in preparation for setting an even higher price for a combination product that contains sofosbuvir (Harvoni) that would be launched after Sovaldi.
It also included an arbitrary price increase from US$ 27 000 per bottle to US$ 28 000 per bottle (i.e.  3.7% increase) because it would “be easy from the press release, from 28 days and $28,000” (p.57) (100).
This example demonstrates that pricing solely according to commercial goals will impair a health system’s ability to achieve public health goals because high prices limit patient access, thereby limiting the full value potential of the innovation.
Even with sufficient clinical trial evidence at the time of regulatory approval, it is important to recognize that the benefits may not be realized in clinical practice because of a range of reasons, such as bias in measuring outcomes in clinical trials or underreporting of adverse events (78).
For newer targeted cancer medicines, there are two additional areas of uncertainty.  Firstly, despite their established mechanisms of action, targeted cancer medicines may not have clinically-meaningful activities against all tumours with a matching genetic mutation.
To this point, a clinical trial has found that the progression-free survival of patients with metastatic solid tumour refractory to standard of care did not improve with the use of targeted therapies that matched with the tumour’s molecular profile but outside their approved indications, compared to
patients who received treatment at the choice of their treating physicians (79).
This means that targeted therapies should only be used according to approved indications and not based on identified molecular alternations or the general type of cancer.
Secondly, a major limitation of targeted cancer medicines is the occurrence of treatment resistance which can result in a lack of response (termed intrinsic resistance) or partial or loss of responses over time (termed acquired resistance) (80).
Clinically, this means that patients may experience prolonged progression- free survival, but not improved overall survival.
While researchers continue to unravel the complex mechanisms of and mitigation strategies for treatment resistance, it is important to recognize that the use of single targeted therapies may not have durable treatment effects in clinical practice.
Furthermore, while the use of targeted therapies in combination may in theory mitigate the emergence of treatment resistance (81), safety consideration either preclude the use of such combination, or compromise the doses at which individual agents could be used in combination, which might in turn
lower its efficacy (82).
Outcomes observed in clinical trials may not translate into benefits for patients in clinical practice.
On 22–23 March 2018, the EML Cancer Medicines Working Group discussed extant evidence on the magnitude of benefits of cancer medicines.
The Working Group also shared country experience in facilitating access to existing cancer medicines on the EML, newer high-cost cancer medicines and cancer care in general.  Below is a summary of the main points presented and discussed in the meeting (83).
1.1 - A Assistência à Saúde somente será prestada pelo IPSEMG aos seus beneficiários, mediante a comprovação do desconto no contracheque do servidor do último mês recebido ou do pagamento da contribuição diretamente ao IPSEMG até o último dia útil do mês de contribuição, nos termos da Lei
Complementar nº 64, de 2002 e Decreto nº 42.897, de 2002.
2.2 - Caso a contribuição seja cobrada em mais de um cargo, o servidor deve preencher o formulário RS810-Requerimento de exclusão de contribuição em vínculo de menor remuneração, disponível no site www.ipsemg.mg.gov.br, no link Saúde, Cadastro Beneficiários, Requerimentos e Certidões e protocolar em
uma unidade de atendimento do IPSEMG juntamente com a cópia e o original da carteira de identidade ou outro documento legal em que conste foto, filiação e naturalidade do segurado.
Os documentos poderão ser enviados também pelos Correios, desde que devidamente autenticados.
2.1 - Para o servidor que possui dois ou mais cargos no Estado e deseja ser beneficiário da Assistência à Saúde IPSEMG, o Decreto nº 42.897/2002, alterado pelo Decreto 45.869/2011, prevê a contribuição apenas no cargo de maior remuneração.
3.1 -Não se exige carência para Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG para o servidor efetivo que fizer opção no momento da posse, bem como do dependente que o servidor que protocolizar o requerimento de inscrição até 90 dias a contar da data da posse ou da constituição do vínculo de dependência.
3.2 - A não adesão à Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG no momento da posse implicará na submissão à carência de 180 dias para consultas, exames, cirurgias, internações e demais procedimentos, inclusive os odontológicos e de 300 dias para partos para o servidor e seus dependentes.
5.1- Qualquer interrupção da contribuição à Assistência à Saúde implicará na submissão aos prazos de carência previstos no Decreto nº 42.897, de 2002, alterado pelo Decreto nº 45.869, de 2011, de 180 dias para consultas, exames, cirurgias, internações e demais procedimentos, inclusive os
odontológicos e de 300 dias para partos .
6.1 - O servidor que não desejar permanecer vinculado à Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG deverá manifestar opção pela exclusão do desconto da contribuição à Assistência à Saúde, mediante requerimento em formulário específico protocolizado na unidade setorial de Recursos Humanos do órgão ou
entidade de seu exercício, ficando ciente que se desejar retornar a ter direito ao benefício da Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG, o servidor e seus dependentes serão submetidos aos prazos de carência de 180 dias para consultas, exames, cirurgias, internações e demais procedimentos, inclusive
os odontológicos e de 300 dias para partos.
7.1 - O beneficiário que ficar temporariamente sem vencimento e desejar continuar com o direito à Assistência à Saúde IPSEMG durante o período de licença ou afastamento deverá preencher o "Termo de Opção para recolhimento da contribuição de Assistência à Saúde do servidor licenciado ou afastado"
disponível no site www.ipsemg.mg.gov.br.
O termo de opção deverá ser protocolado em uma unidade de atendimento do IPSEMG.Essa opção deverá ser formalizada no momento do requerimento da licença ou afastamento e as contribuições serão recolhidas diretamente ao IPSEMG através de DAE - Documento de Arrecadação Estadual.
8.1 - Ao aderir à Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG, fica autorizada a utilização de dados relativos ao servidor ou pensionista para efeito de atendimento do disposto no artigo 85 da Lei Complementar nº 64 de 2002, inclusive quanto ao limite dos valores de margem e saldo consignável,
previstos no artigo 16 da Lei nº 19.490 de 2011.
ultraviolet light must be evaluated in flashing selection.  Flashing material should not be susceptible to corrosion in fresh mortar or react with adjacent materials such as rigid insulation.  Flashing should be easily formed into the desired shape.
Compatibility with materials such as sealants or adhesives should be reviewed.  Expected life of the flashing materials should be the expected life of the structure, at a minimum.
All of these qualities of the flashing material must be taken into consideration in selection because replacement is expensive.  Table 2 describes the thickness and advantages and disadvantages of flashing materials that can be installed in brick masonry cavity walls.
Sheet metals used for flashing include stainless steel, copper, lead-coated copper and galvanized steel.  Aluminum should not be used since it can corrode in fresh mortar.  Stainless steel and copper materials are the most durable, but are also the most expensive.
Galvanized steel has also been used in limited applications.  These flashing materials have a greater life expectancy than composite or fabric flashing.  Sheet metal flashing is bent and formed on site and sealed by soldering or with adhesives and rivets.
This additional installation time can result in additional construction costs.  Stainless steel materials should conform the ASTM A 167 Specification for Stainless and Heat-Resisting Steel Plate, Sheet and Strip.
Copper flashing should comply with ASTM B 370 Specification for Copper Sheet and Strip for Building Construction.  Solder should conform to ASTM B 32 Specification for Solder Metal.
Composite or combination flashings are typically less expensive than sheet metal and are easier to install.  The most predominant type is a thin layer of metal sandwiched between one or two layers of another material.  The metal layer is usually of aluminum, copper or lead.
It is covered on one or both sides with various materials, such as asphalt coatings, kraft paper, fiberglass fabric or plastic films.  Product literature should be reviewed to determine whether these materials are appropriate for use in brick masonry cavity walls.
Consideration should be given to compatibility with adjacent sealants, delamination due to moisture penetration and movement of the wall system.
A further measure that may reduce medicine price is tax reduction or exemption.  Medicines may be subject to different taxes in countries that consider medicines like other consumer goods for the purpose of taxation.
These include the application of import tariffs and value-added tax (VAT) (Table 3.4, p.43).  Countries that are signatories to the reciprocal Pharmaceutical Tariff Elimination Agreement, or the “zero- for-zero” initiative, have 0% tariff (198).
The zero-for-zero initiative has extended to some non-signatory countries, including low- and middle-income countries.  Some countries have also implemented tax exemption specifically targeting cancer medicines.
For example, from May 2018, the Government of China has exempted import tariffs on common medicines, including 16 cancer medicines (199).
Such initiatives would require concurrent enforcement efforts to ensure that any savings from tax reduction or exemption are directly transferred to service providers or patients.
Many countries continue to apply tariffs on imported medicines, access to medicines (198).  Many countries also apply VAT to medicines, although VAT rates are generally reduced for medicines compared to the standard tax rates (200).
Nonetheless, VAT can make medicines unaffordable while not substantially contributing to revenue goals (e.g.  ≈1% of public revenue) (198,201).
In countries with pricing regulations, authorities may monitor and revise medicine prices according to changing market conditions and therapeutic landscape.  The most commonly employed method is revision of medicine prices upon the loss of market exclusivity of a product (Table 3.5).
For example, through an agreement with the pharmaceutical industry, the Australian Government has set rules for reducing the.
√ This is an open authorization to allow charges to my credit card for all orders placed with GlobalTranz. Amounts will vary per transaction based on the order amounts plus an additional 2.5% surcharge fee per transaction where allowed by law.
I have read and agree to all of the terms and conditions on this page, as well as, the terms and conditions of GlobalTranz found on www.carrierate.com, or any other document that accompanies this agreement. I certify that I am the authorized account holder for this credit card.
_______ I understand that the Brandon Valley School District reserves the right to regularly review, monitor and audit access on all internet utilization. I further understand that I do not have a right to privacy when using the Brandon Valley School District’s network.
Convidamos você a participar de nossa pesquisa que tem a finalidade de .........  (descrever de maneira clara com linguagem não técnica), para isso será realizado .............  (mencionar de maneira clara com linguagem não técnica os procedimentos planejados).
Para participar deste estudo, o seu responsável legal deverá autorizar a sua participação mediante a assinatura de um Termo de Consentimento.  A não autorização do seu responsável legal invalidará este Termo de Assentimento e você não poderá participar do estudo.  Durante a execução do estudo ..
(descrever os riscos e benefícios ou os procedimentos que causem algum tipo de dano/desconforto, nunca informar que o projeto não tem riscos, pois mesmo uma pergunta aparentemente inocente pode causar constrangimento à pessoa).
Studies of international regulations of drug prices and the Gant Consortium’s own analysis of the Canadian, English, and German experiences suggest that there are several “necessary but not sufficient” components of value-based drug regulations.
One study of MEAs argues that key components of successful agreements include:.
Ultimately, managed entry agreements require political consensus and considerable practical effort.  American payers have typically been reticent to say no to covering drugs, and MEAs are built on the capacity to deny coverage for some treatments.
The technical complexity of MEAs present additional implementation barriers; for example, the administrative burdens and complexity of collecting data and managing agreements with different manufacturers are considerable.
Should MEAs be adopted more widely by private insurers, the discounted prices are likely to remain confidential.  Finally, MEAs do not resolve underlying controversies regarding appropriate comparator drugs, measures of clinical efficacy, or how to build in other patient considerations.
Note: If you are in a joint or dual degree program, you will need to have a recommendation completed by the academic advisor from each program.
If the extension is based on one of the degree programs, please provide a statement from the other program(s) confirming that it has been completed and does not require an extension.
 Delays caused by academic probation or suspension are not acceptable reasons for program extension [8 CFR 214.2(f)(7)(iii)].
 Extension requests will not be granted solely because the student was delayed by engaging in employment such as Curricular Practical Training (F-1) or Academic Training (J-1).
3H-hypoxanthine (which is taken up by the parasite for purine salvage and DNA synthesis) to determine the level ofP.falciparum growth inhibition.In most applica- tions,parasites are cultured in the presence ofdifferent concentrations of test compound in media containing reduced concentrations of
hypoxanthine,after which 3H-hypoxanthine is added for an additional incuba- tion period before cell harvesting and measurement of radioactive counts.
IC 50values can be determined by linear regression analyses on the linear segments of the dose–response curves.
Although 3H-hypoxanthine incorporation is the most commonly used method to assay antimalarial activity in vitro,it is costly,radioactive and quite com- plex,and therefore problematic for resource-poor loca- tions or for high-throughput screening (HTS,reviewed in REF.  51).
A low-cost alternative for testing small numbers ofcompounds is to incubate parasites with test compounds (typically for 48 or 72 hours),and then to compare parasitaemias oftreated and control parasites by counting GIEMSA-stained parasites by light microscopy.
Another established,but less standardized,assay involves the colorimetric detection of lactate dehydrogenase52.
Flow cytometry has also been used to test candidate anti- malarial compounds,and takes advantage ofthe fact that human erythrocytes lack DNA.In the simplest use ofthis technology, parasites are fixed after the appropriate period ofincubation with test compounds,then either the parasitized cells are
stained with hydroethidine (which is metabolized to ethidium53) or the parasite nuclei are stained with DAPI (4′,6-diamidino-2- phenylindole).Counts oftreated and control cultures are then obtained by flow cytometry.Appropriate gating can.
also allow one to distinguish different parasite erythro- cytic stages.This relatively simple assay provides quite high throughput and has replaced older methods at some centres,but requires expensive equipment.
Compounds that meet an acceptable cut-off for in vitroactivity (for example,IC 50≤1 µM) can then be tested for activity against a range ofgeographically dis- tinct P.falciparum lines of differing drug-resistance phenotypes (see Further Information,Antimalarial drug discovery:efficacy models for
compound screening) to determine whether resistance to existing antimalarial drugs reduces parasite sensitivity to the compounds under evaluation.
Different research groups have incorporated a variety of modifications of the basic in vitro screens listed above,which can influence the measurement of drug activity levels,as follows.
Unsynchronized versus synchronized cultures.For pre- liminary screening of diverse compounds, the less demanding (but less sensitive) method ofusing unsyn- chronized cultures is widely used.
SYNCHRONIZEDCULTURES are used when comparing a series ofcompounds,estab- lishing rank order ofactivities and determining potency against different parasite stages54.
Duration ofincubation.Most assays incorporate incu- bation with test compounds for 48 hours,the duration of one erythrocytic cycle.
Incubations can also be extended to 72 hours or longer.This can generate more reproducible IC 50values when working with unsyn- chronized cultures and is important when testing slower-acting compounds such as antibiotics.
Estou de acordo com o disposto no art.
29, inciso VI e § 2º, da Resolução nº 1.114, de 2019, portanto, declaro que na qualidade de candidato nas Eleições 2020, atendo a todas as condições de elegibilidade, bem como não incido em nenhuma das hipóteses de inelegibilidade previstas no Regulamento Eleitoral, e que o endereço residencial que
forneci acima, encontra-se atualizado, bem como os contatos telefônicos e de e-mail, e estou ciente de que as Comissões Eleitorais poderão se utilizar de tais dados para as comunicações e notificações que se fizerem necessárias, sem prejuízo da divulgação de editais eleitorais.
Comments and suggestions regarding this draft document should be submitted within 75 days of publication in the Federal Register of the notice announcing the availability of the draft guidance.  Submit electronic comments to http://www.regulations.gov.
Submit written comments to the Division of Dockets Management (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm.  1061, Rockville, MD 20852.  All comments should be identified with the docket number listed in the notice of availability that publishes in the Federal Register.
In the Biomedical sector, the current applications of data mining are the most successful and they have become the subfield of medical research.
The basis for this growth is that nowadays most of the health related data are stored in small datasets scattered through various Hospitals, Clinics and Research centers.
The healthcare sector is presently facing both the economic predictability and the methodological prospect of a data based approach for quality administration.  Hence, abundant data mining techniques have been proposed to process medical data stream.
Applying data mining techniques to the centralized database will offer to doctors investigative and foretelling tools from the surface of the data.
Modern clinical practices also undertake transformation not only in diagnosis and treatment methods, but also in understanding of health and illness concepts.
Data Mining can generate information that can be useful to all stakeholders in health care, including patients by identifying effective treatments and best practices.
Though data mining methods and tools have been applied in diverse areas for more than 40 years already, their applications in healthcare are comparatively young.  Therefore, this paper presents a survey on the significance of Data Mining techniques in Disease Diagnosis and Biomedical Research.
their applications are restricted.  Call support systems with diagnosing support for naive doctors and for knowledgeable doctors would be a tenet for higher clinical cognitive process.
The primary initiative is that the prospective costs and effects of diagnosis can be measured and used to enhance the task.
Furthermore, the transitional enquiry steps such as asking for more systematic studies, or more examination done by human professionals, can also be computed in terms of cost and effect.  Based on these cost and effect, the system can learn to recommend the optimal action.
Providing precious services at cheap prices may be a major constraint encountered by the aid organizations (hospitals, medical centers).  Valuable quality service denotes the correct diagnosing of patients and providing economical treatment.
Acceptable computer-based info and/or call support systems will aid in achieving clinical tests at a reduced value.
Due to the accessibility of integrated info through huge patient repositories, there is a swing within the insight of clinicians, patients and payers from qualitative health care sectors.
President Obama has recently expressed a strong conviction that “Science offers great potential for improving health”.  The President has announced a research initiative that aims to accelerate progress toward a new era of precision medicine.
The time is accurate for this idealistic initiative, and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and other partners will work to attain this vision [7].  The concept of precision medicine speaks of prevention and treatment strategies that take individual variability into account.
Even though it is not new, the impact of practicality is still deprived.  If one considers blood typing, for instance, has been used to guide blood transfusions for more than a century.
But the vision of applying this concept broadly has been intensely improved by the latest development of large-scale biologic databases (such as the human genome sequence), powerful methods for typifying patients (such as proteomics, metabolomics, genomics, diverse cellular assays, and even mobile
health technology), and computational tools for analyzing large sets of data.
Francis S.Collins et al.  stated that, “What is necessary now is a broad.
This form is for all providers disputing a claim with Molina Healthcare of Illinois and serving members in the state of Illinois.  Requests must be received within 90 days of date of original remittance advice.  Please allow 60 days to process this reconsideration request.
Please submit this completed form and any supporting documentation to Molina Healthcare of Illinois.
Fax: The Claims Dispute Request Form can be faxed to Molina at (855) 502-4962. The fax must include the claims dispute request form. Providers, please note: Please refer to the corrected claims form for submission guidelines on claims being corrected and not disputed.
1.
All records and other information regarding my treatment, hospitalization, and outpatient care for my impairment(s) including, and not limited to: • Psychological, psychiatric or other mental impairment(s) (excludes "psychotherapy notes" as defined in 45 CFR 164.501) • Drug abuse, alcoholism, or
other substance abuse • Sickle cell anemia • Records which may indicate the presence of a communicable or noncommunicable disease; and tests for or records of HIV/AIDS • Gene-related impairments (including genetic test results).
3.  Copies of educational tests or evaluations, including Individualized Educational Programs, triennial assessments, psychological and speech evaluations, and any other records that can help evaluate function; also teachers' observations and evaluations.  4.
Information created within 12 months after the date this authorization is signed, as well as past information.
This general and special authorization to disclose was developed to comply with the provisions regarding disclosure of medical, educational, and other information under P.L.  104-191 ("HIPAA"); 45 CFR parts 160 and 164; 42 U.S.  Code section 290dd-2; 42 CFR part 2; 38 U.S.
Code section 7332; 38 CFR 1.475; 20 U.S.  Code section 1232g ("FERPA"); 34 CFR parts 99 and 300; and State law.
In this report, the term “cancer survivor” refers to any person with a history of cancer, from the time of diagnosis through the remainder of their life.
Henceforth, the terms cancer patient and cancer survivor are used interchangeably without preference, although it is recognized that not all people with a cancer diag- nosis identify with the term “cancer survivor.”.
The goals of treatment are to “cure” the cancer, if possible; pro- long survival; and provide the highest possible quality of life during and after treatment.  A cancer is cured when all traces of the cancer have been removed from the patient’s body.
Although it is usually not possible to know if the cancer is completely eradicated, for many patients, the initial course of therapy is successful and the cancer never returns.
However, some cancer- free survivors must cope with the long-term effects of treatment, as well as psychological concerns such as fear of recurrence.
Cancer patients, caregivers, and survivors must have the infor- mation and support they need to play an active role in decisions that affect treatment and quality of life.
More than 15.5 million children and adults with a history of cancer were alive on January 1, 2016, in the United States.
This estimate, also referred to as cancer prevalence, does not include carcinoma in situ (non-invasive cancer) of any site except uri- nary bladder, nor does it include basal cell or squamous cell skin.
NOTE: Beginning with the 2016-2017 edition, estimates for specific cancer types now take into account the potential for a history of more than one cancer type.  Estimates should not be compared to those from previous years.  See Sources of Statistics, page 34, for more information.
Source: Surveillance Research Program, Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences, National Cancer Institute.
The findings of Table 6 have shown that students of humanities strand have more frequency percent (45.3% for "no answer") than other strands in first category (quality of examples) for second open-ended question.
It can conclude that students have demonstrated real-life category often in three strands.
Mathematics is a main matter of the real-life that can cover all aspects of real world.  Therefore educational systems have to create new circumferences for mathematics education.
The results of this study have indicated that all students of this research have understood the importance and frequency of the relation of mathematics to real-life.
But students of humanities strand believed that it is not considered the relation of mathematics to real-life in teaching mathematics and also students of experimental science strand believed that it cannot create the relation between taught mathematical subjects and real-life.  In.
• Mood disturbances and cognitive difficulties.  Complaints of irritability, loss of interest, mild depression and anxi- ety are common among insomnia patients.
Patients with chronic insomnia often complain of mental inefficiency, difficulty remembering, difficulty focusing attention, and difficulty with complex mental tasks.
• Quality of life: The irritability and fatigue associated with insomnia may cause interpersonal difficulties for insomnia patients, or avoidance of such activities.  Conversely, in- terpersonal difficulties may be an important contributor to insomnia problems for some individuals.
Sleep and wak- ing problems may lead to restriction of daytime activities, including social events, exercise, or work.  Lack of regular daytime activities and exercise may in turn contribute to insomnia.  • Exacerbation of comorbid conditions.
Comorbid condi- tions may cause or increase sleep difficulties.  Likewise, poor sleep may exacerbate symptomatology of comorbid conditions.  Sleep complaints may herald the onset of mood disorders or exacerbation of comorbid conditions.  VI.
Other History: A complete insomnia history also in- cludes medical, psychiatric, medication/substance, and family/ social/occupational histories.  A wide range of medical (Table 5) and psychiatric (Table 6) conditions can be comorbid with.
insomnia.  Likewise, the direct effects of over-the-counter and prescription medications and substances (Table 7), and their effects upon withdrawal, may impact both sleep and daytime symptoms.
Conditions often comorbid with insomnia, such as mood and anxiety disorders, may also have familial or genetic components.  Social and occupational histories may indicate not only the effects of insomnia on the individual, but also possible contributing factors.
Occupational assessment should specifi- cally include work around dangerous machinery, driving duties, regular or irregular shift-work and transmeridian travel.
Physical and Mental Status Examination: Chronic in- somnia is not associated with any specific features on physi- cal or mental status examination.  However, these exams may provide important information regarding comorbid conditions and differential diagnosis.
A physical exam should specifically evaluate risk factors for sleep apnea (obesity, increased neck circumference, upper airway restrictions) and comorbid medi- cal conditions that include but are not limited to disorders of pulmonary, cardiac, rheumatologic, neurological, endocrine (such as
thyroid), and gastrointestinal systems.
The mental sta- tus exam should focus on mood, anxiety, memory, concentra- tion, and degree of alertness or sleepiness.
Supporting Information: While a thorough clinical history and exam form the core of the evaluation, differential diagno- sis is further aided by the use of sleep logs, questionnaires for sleep quality, sleepiness, psychological assessment and quality of life (Table 8), and in some cases,
actigraphy.21-23 For specific insomnias, psychological testing, quality of life questionnaires, and other comorbid questionnaires and testing are useful.
The choice of assessment tools should be based on the patient’s pre- sentation and the clinician’s expertise.
At minimum, the patient should complete: (1) A general medical/psychiatric/medication questionnaire (to identify comorbid disorders and medication use) (2) The Epworth Sleepiness Scale or other sleepiness assess- ment (to identify sleepy patients)24 (3) A two-week sleep log to identify sleep-wake
times, gen- eral patterns, and day-to-day variability.
When possible, questionnaires and a two-week sleep log should be completed prior to the first visit to begin the process.
medically related text and metadata features, such as “pa- tients,” “alzheimer,” “health information management,” and “medicine” are also important and of mostly positive polar- ity, since medical articles attract greater news coverage than, say, a recently published computer science paper.
As we dis- cuss later, the presence of “alzheimer” as an important, neg- ative feature is more an artifact of the dataset than an iden- tification of trends in popularity.
We also find an artifact of year (2016) of the dataset with the feature “zika virus,” due to the 2015-2016 zika epidemic in North and South Amer- ica.
Three publishers appear in the top 20, the Massachusetts Medical Society, the publisher of the New England Journal ofMedicine,oneofthemostprestigiouspeer-reviewedmed- ical journals, “The Royal Society,” publisher of the less pres- tigious, but longest-running scientific journal, “Philosophi- cal
Transactions of the Royal Society,” and “Elsevier,” one of the largest science publishers.
See Table 3 for results for this experiment.  Relative perfor- mance on the weekly task is similar to its daily counter- part.
Understandably, performance is best when optimized for and evaluated on smaller ranks for NDCG since weekly scientificarticlelistsarelongandtherearemoresuper popu- lar, possibly easier to rank, articles which can fill the top 7 or 35.
Segmenting dates by week rather than day may be more realistic, since scientific articles compete for news coverage with articles published around the same time rather than just those published on the same day.
At ranks 35 and 70, as in the daily prediction task, the models using all features perform the best, but not statisti- cally significantly better than models trained on some fea- ture subsets.
At rank 7, the model trained on textual features outperforms the model with all features, but not statistically significantly.  Table5givesthetopfeaturesforthemodeltrainedtoopti- mize NDCG@7 and using textual features.
Again, medical and people-related terms, such as “diet,” “participants,” and “health” are quite important and of positive polarity.  Inter- estingly, “protein” in the press release is of positive polar- ity on average, whereas it is negative when present in the abstract.
We hypothesize that this may be because, on aver- age, very technical scientific papers, such as those mention- ing proteins and cells, are less accessible to journalists, but those which garner a press release are much more likely to be read and covered.  Similar to Zhang et al.
(2016) “95” (for 95% CI) is an important, positive feature, perhaps since this is commonly found in results of medical studies that may be of interest to the general public.
SincehavingapressreleaseonEurekAlert!orScienceDaily is, understandably, correlated with increased news cover- age, we repeat the same experiments on the subset of sci- entific articles with press releases posted on EurekAlert.  or Science Daily.  This subset consists of 20,546 scientific arti- cles.
Thresholds between relevances are much higher on this subset, with thresholds at the daily level of T 1 = 3.64 and.
level, on average.  As seen in Table 3, this problem is harder, with the best performance on the daily task at 0.6065, using all features, and 0.6156 on the weekly task at rank 7, using all features.
However, although harder, this problem may be more realis- tic since, as noted in the introduction, many journalists start with press materials to inform what science they cover be- fore reading original articles.  Table 6 displays the top 20 fea- tures for the daily experiment using all features.
Important features for these experiments are similar to those listed for the experiments including all scientific articles, except fea- tures from the press release are more prevalent.
This makes sense as press releases were issued for all articles in this sub- set (and we have the text of most of them), and press releases are an important source text for journalists.  We do not list features from the weekly experiments as they are quite sim- ilar.
In the previous experiments, we treat articles with news cov- erage from only automatic copying of abstracts or press re- leases as having coverage count 0.
In this section, we also explore the binary prediction problem of differentiating be- tween those 0 count articles and those with any amount of real news coverage.  We create a matched sampling problem using the 34,329 scientific articles with no real news cov- erage as negative examples.
For each negative example, we attempt to find a positive example: 1.  with the same subject fields, 2.  published in the same journal, 3.  published within.
Precast hollow-core concrete planks generally bear on the interior wythe of a cavity wall.  The plank rests a minimum of 3 in.  (75 mm) on a bearing pad that separates the plank from a concrete masonry bond beam below.  Anchorage to the wall may be achieved with reinforcing steel (see Fig.
22) or, when lateral loads are small, planks may be solidly grouted to the wall.  In either case, connections should be designed by a structural engineer.
Wood floor joists normally have a 3 in.  (75 mm) fire cut end and bear only on the interior wythe of a cavity wall.  The ends of the joist must not project into the cavity; they can form a ledge, which may create a moisture bridge across the cavity.
Wood floor joists may also be fastened to metal joist hangers attached to a ledger bolted to the inner wythe of the cavity wall, or joist hangers may be embedded in the inner wythe of the cavity wall.  See Fig.  23.
The inclusion of SPX Weeklys in the VIX Index calculation means that the near-term options will always have more than 23 days to expiration and the next-term options always have less than 37 days to expiration, so the resulting VIX Index value will always reflect an interpolation of σ2 1 and σ2 2 ;
i.e., each individual weight is less than or equal to 1 and the sum of the weights equals 1.
N T1 = number of minutes to settlement of the near-term options (35,924) N T2 = number of minutes to settlement of the next-term options (46,394) N 30 = number of minutes in 30 days (30 x 1,440 = 43,200) N 365 = number of minutes in a 365-day year (365 x 1,440 = 525,600)
Choosing a doctor to treat cancer is one of the most important decisions for newly diagnosed cancer patients.  Typically, the doctor who made the preliminary diagnosis, usually the patient’s primary care physician, will recommend appropriate cancer specialists.
There are three main types of cancer physicians or oncologists, based on the type of treatment service they provide: medical (those who treat cancer using chemotherapy and other drugs), surgical, and radiation.  Some types of oncologists focus on specific populations.
For example, pediatric oncologists spe- cialize in the care of children, and hematologists specialize in patients with blood disorders.
Some cancers, such as skin and prostate cancer, may be treated by doctors who specialize in specific body systems (i.e., dermatologists and urologists, respectively).
Plastic surgeons may also be involved in cancer treatment by performing reconstructive surgeries as part of cancer care, particularly for patients with breast or head and neck cancers.
To aid in the selection of an oncologist, visit the American Soci- ety of Clinical Oncology’s website, cancer.net, for a searchable online database of cancer specialists.
Many other physician organizations have online physician databases, such as the American Society of Hematology, the Society of Surgical Oncol- ogy, the American Medical Association, the American College of Surgeons, the American Osteopathic Association, and the American Academy of Hospice and
Palliative Medicine.
Cancer patients should ask prospective doctors direct questions about their level of experience, including the number of patients they have treated with the same type of cancer or the number of surgical procedures they have performed and their outcomes.
Questions about how the doctor organizes cancer care with.
If you are aggrieved by this order, you have the right to request a hearing before the Board of Health.
This request must be made by either the owner of Victory Baptist Church or an authorized agent of Victory Baptist Church in writing, and filed with the Board of Health within seven (7) days after the date this Order was served or actually received.
Any affected party has the right to appear at said hearing.
Failure to comply with this order may result in additional penalties as permitted by law, including but not limited to, the filing of a complaint in District or Superior Court and any emergency court order(s) issued pursuant to any such complaint.
I hereby confirm that I have read and understand the entire Service Order Form and I agree to all the Terms and Conditions as provided in the agreement. I further confirm that all the information provided by me is true and correct and that I am authorized by stated Company to sign this agreement.
Por este instrumento particular o(a) paciente _______________________________________________________ e/ou seu responsável, Sr.(a)_________________________________________________________________, declara, para todos os fins legais, especialmente do disposto no artigo 39, VI, da Lei 8.078/90 do
Código de Defesa do Consumidor que dá plena autorização ao (à) médico(a) assistente, Dr.(a)_____________________________________________________, inscrito(a) no CRM sob o nº___________ para proceder as investigações necessárias ao diagnóstico do seu estado de saúde, bem como executar o procedimento
propedêutico designado “ARTERIOGRAFIA (ANGIOGRAFIA DIAGNÓSTICA)”, e todos os procedimentos que o incluem, inclusive anestesias ou outras condutas médicas que tal tratamento médico possa requerer, podendo o referido profissional valer-se do auxílio de outros profissionais de saúde.
Declara, outrossim, que o referido(a) médico(a), atendendo ao disposto nos arts.  22 e 34 do Código de Ética Médica e no art.
9º da Lei 8.078/90 (abaixo transcritos), prestando informações detalhadas sobre o diagnóstico e sobre o procedimento ora autorizado, especialmente as que se seguem: Andre Jakurski Arthur Pesquisa Ana Cristina Reif de Paula 6698562.
DEFINIÇÃO: a Angiografia Diagnóstica consiste na injeção de meio de contraste intravascular, para que juntamente com uso das imagens radiológicas possa esclarecer de forma precisa os diagnósticos em questão.  Este exame é considerado extremamente complexos.
É necessário lembrar que o paciente deve ser encaminhado ao exame o mais bem preparado possível, no tocante das melhores condições de controle das doenças associadas, por exemplo Diabetes, hipertensão arterial, insuficiência cardíaca congestiva.
Importante também não interromper medicação em uso conforme orientação especifica do médico assistente/ examinador.
Reiterando trata – se de procedimento diagnóstico e logicamente não atende a prerrogativa de cura pois não se refere a procedimento terapêuticos e em algumas circunstâncias o médico assistente é obrigado a tomar decisões e providências conforme a necessidade do momento para se atingir a solução de
problemas e desta forma atender com maior benefício para o paciente.
Como todo exame que se caracteriza como “invasivo’’ este procedimento é acompanhado de uma estatística de efeitos indesejados/ complicações, que ocorre numa minoria extrema dos casos, mas devem ser explicitados.  Dentre as possibilidades citamos:.
Infecção hospitalar: A portaria nº 2.616, de 12/05/1998 do Ministério da Saúde estabeleceu as normas do Programa de Controle de Infecção Hospitalar (PCIH), obrigando os hospitais a constituir a CCIH (Comissão de Controle de Infecção Hospitalar).
Os índices de infecção hospitalar aceitos são estabelecidos usando-se como parâmetro o NNIS (Nacional Nosocomial Infectores Surveillance – Vigilância Nacional Nosocomial de Infecção), órgão internacional que estabelece os índices de infecção hospitalar aceitos e que são: Cirurgias Limpas – 2%,
Cirurgias potencialmente contaminadas – 10%, Cirurgias contaminadas – 20%, Cirurgias Infectadas – 40%.
Declara, igualmente, estar ciente de que o tratamento adotado não assegura a garantia de cura, e que a evolução da doença e do tratamento podem obrigar o (a) médico (a) a modificar as condutas inicialmente propostas, sendo que, neste caso, fica o (a) mesmo (a) autorizado (a), desde já, a tomar
providências necessárias para tentar a solução dos problemas surgidos, segundo seu julgamento.
Finalmente, declara ter sido informado a respeito de métodos terapêuticos alternativos e estar atendido em suas dúvidas e questões, através de linguagem clara e acessível.
Assim, tendo lido, entendido e aceito as explicações sobre os mais comuns RISCOS E COMPLICAÇÕES deste procedimento, expressa seu pleno consentimento para sua realização.
Lei 8.078 de 11/09/1990 – Código Brasileiro de Defesa do Consumidor: Art.
9º - O fornecedor de produtos ou serviços potencialmente perigosos à saúde ou segurança deverá informar, de maneira ostensiva e adequada, a respeito da sua nocividade ou periculosidade, sem prejuízo da adoção de outras medidas cabíveis em cada caso concreto.  Art.
39 - É vedado ao fornecedor de produtos ou serviços dentre outras práticas abusivas: VI – executar serviços sem a prévia elaboração de orçamento e autorização expressa do consumidor, ressalvadas as decorrentes de práticas anteriores entre as partes.
6 - O comprovante de despesas (recibo ou nota fiscal) deve ser feito em nome do titular ou dependente.
Deve conter a identificação do paciente atendido (mesmo que tenha sido o próprio titular), o nome do profissional responsável pelo atendimento ou nome da instituição (caso seja pessoa jurídica), os registros do CRO do profissional e/ou da pessoa jurídica, e o CPF (pessoa física) ou CNPJ (pessoa
jurídica).
11 - O beneficiário abaixo assinado atesta ciência que o Agros disponibiliza rede credenciada para a realização do procedimento em questão.  10 - A veracidade das informações relacionadas ao tratamento é de responsabilidade do beneficiário.
8 - O valor cobrado pelos procedimentos descritos deve ser compatível com o valor dos recibos e/ou nota fiscal apresentados.  9 - Caso o beneficiário opte por não apresentar documentação radiográfica, deve apresentar declaração de próprio punho.
Resistance to transmission of sound in masonry construction is accomplished in two ways: the use of heavy massive walls or the use of discontinuous construction. The cavity wall employs both techniques, i.e., the massiveness of the two masonry wythes plus the partial discontinuity of the cavity.
In cavity wall construction, the air space provides a partial isolation of the two wythes.  Sound on one side of a cavity wall causes vibration of a wythe.
Because of the separation and cushioning effect of the air space and the massiveness of the masonry, the vibration is dampened and greatly reduced.  A 10-in.
(250 mm) brick cavity wall with brick backing has a Sound Transmission Class (STC) rating of 50, which is usually sufficient for substantially reducing typical outside noises entering the building through the wall.  For more information on sound transmission, see Technical Notes 5A.
There are many various design procedures for cavity walls.  Both rational and empirical design methods are used.  Rational design methods currently use working stress analysis.  Limit states or strength design methods are now being written.
Other methods such as a modified yield line approach, fracture line approach and elastic performance of cracked panels have been proposed for the design of unreinforced walls.
However, insufficient data and lack of recognition by model building codes relegate these methods to use as special systems for design.
The structural design of cavity walls should follow either rational or empirical methods.  The rational design method is based on the properties of the wall materials and engineering analysis.  This method may be used for any structure where high loads are likely or where tall walls are a necessity.
The empirical method is generally satisfactory for one and two-story buildings consisting of light construction with limited floor spans and wall heights; and for multistory buildings where unsupported wall heights are not excessive.
The design of cavity walls is governed by model building codes.  Most of these reference the ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402 Building Code Requirements for Masonry Structures, also known as the Masonry Standards Joint Committee (MSJC) Code [2].
The Uniform Building Code incorporates similar design requirements for cavity walls [9].  Seismic design requirements are also stipulated in these building codes based on site location.  A detailed design of cavity walls is not covered in this Technical Notes.
For design aids and examples of design procedures, several books listed in the REFERENCES section should be consulted [5, 7].
This form authorizes the CONSULATE GENERAL OF BOLIVIA in Los Angeles, California to deduct the payment indicated below from the credit card provided by the cardholder.
This is strictly a one-time payment permission and does not provide authorization for any additional unrelated debits or credits to the account.
I authorize the above diplomatic mission to charge the credit card indicated in this form according the terms outlined. I will not dispute the payment with my credit card company as long as the transaction corresponds to the purposed indicated in this Form.
Benefício devido ao servidor ativo, inativo e ao pensionista, de caráter indenizatório, realizado mediante ressarcimento desde que comprovada a contratação particular de Plano de Assistência à Saúde suplementar que atenda às exigências contidas no art.
1 da Portaria Normativa SRH n.º 1, publicada no Diário Oficial da União em 10/03/2017.
This paper introduces an unsupervised vector ap- proach to disambiguate words in biomedical text us- ing contextual information from the UMLS.  Our ap- proach makes disambiguation decisions for words that have the same ST unlike Humphrey et al.  (2006).
We believe that our approach shows promise and leads us to our goal of exploring the use of biomedical knowledge sources.
In the future, we would also like to increase the size of our con(cid:3)ated dataset and possibly create a biomedical all-words disambiguation test set to test our approach.  Unlike SenseClusters, our approach can be used to perform all-words disambiguation.
For example, given the sentence: His weight has fluctuated during the past month.
We (cid:2)rst create a instance vector containing fluctuated, past and months for the word weight and a concept vector for each of its possible concepts, (cid:147)C0005912: Body Weight(cid:148) and (cid:147)C0699807: Quantitative Concept(cid:148) us- ing their context descriptions.
We then calculate the cosine between the instance vector and each of the two concept vectors.  The concept whose vector has the smallest cosine score is assigned to weight.  We then repeat this process for fluctuated, past and months.
We also plan to explore using different contex- tual information to improve the accuracy of our approach.  We are currently exploring using co- occurrence and relational information about the pos- sible CUIs in the UMLS.  Our IDF stoplist exper-.
S.M.  Humphrey, W.J.  Rogers, H.  Kilicoglu, D.  Demner- Fushman, and T.C.  Rind(cid:3)esch.  2006.  Word sense dis- ambiguation by selecting the best semantic type based on journal descriptor indexing: Preliminary experi- ment.
Journal ofthe American Society for Information Science and Technolology, 57(1):96(cid:150)113.
Dear Parent(s) or Guardian(s): Each year, we are required by law to notify you of your child’s proficiency level in English.  We must also provide you with the school’s recommendation for program placement and describe all available program options.
This letter also explains how we decide when a student is ready to exit the English learner program.
(20 United States Code 7012 and 6312[g][1][A]; California Education Code Section 48985; and Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations Section 11309[a][b][1]) Your child’s current English proficiency level is _________________________________, according to their most recent California English
Language Development Test (CELDT) results.
begineer.
The chart below shows all program placement options. (A more detailed description follows.) To request that your child be placed in an Alternative Program in which much of the instruction is provided in your child’s primary language, you must apply for a “Parental Exception Waiver.”
By signing below and submitting for payment, I acknowledge acceptance of Terms and Conditions.
I also agree to waive any charge-back rights and in the event of a dispute, requests for refund must be submitted in writing along with all order documentation in accordance with the standard policy of the company issuing the credit card.
To determine if there were possible changes in participants’ ratings before and after the workshop, paired t-tests were run and analyzed.
Table 2 shows mean scores and standard deviations (SDs) from the Pre-Workshop Student Survey and the Post-Workshop Student Survey, mean score differences and standard errors (SEs), dependent-samples t-tests results (t statistic and degrees of freedom), p-values, and the effect sizes (measured by
dependent-samples Cohen’s d).
Table 3 shows faculty participants’ self-perception of their previous experience in mentoring and as well as faculty participants’ perceptions of the workshop effectiveness.
Before the workshop started, the faculty participants (n = 28) showed a medium average of previous experience in mentoring with a wide variability.
Specifically, faculty participants (n = 28) yielded a mean of 3.68 (SD = 1.02) on “Do you have substantial previous experience in mentoring?” This showed some faculty do not have much previous mentoring experience while some others have substantial previous mentoring experience.
In addition, these faculty participants’ (n = 26, due to the exclusion of two incomplete post- workshop surveys from faculty) highly-rated perceptions of workshop effectiveness were reported here.
Specifically, the majority expressed that the workshop was helpful (M = 4.77, SD = 0.51), that the workshop was organized well (M = 4.88, SD = 0.33), that they would attend future related.
Medical tourism is becoming a source of economic gain for many countries and regions of the world.
(Carruth and Carruth 2010; Hill n.d.; Kahn 2010) Medical tourism increases the economic situation (Munro 2012; Pocock and Phua 2011) in a destination country, provides care for many individuals willing to pay out of pocket, and lowers health insurance costs for U.S.
employers and health insurers willing to pay for health care abroad.  It is difficult to determine, with any accuracy, the number of persons travelling from the U.S alone to a foreign country for health care reasons.
Estimates of Americans travelling abroad for treatments place the number of persons traveling to India or Thailand for health care reasons in excess of 750,000 persons for 2005 (Herrick 2007; Kahn 2010).
A 2003 estimate placed the total number of persons traveling to India, Thailand, Singapore, and Malaysia at 1.4 million persons (Heung, Kucukusta, and Song 2011).
This estimate increased in 2010 to 6 million persons, with an economic gain of > $4 billion, with half of the revenue going to India (Heung, Kucukusta, and Song 2011; Horowitz, Rosensweig, and Jones 2007; Hill n.d.).
As medical tourism develops into a multi-billion dollar industry, with steady annual growth projected, estimates of global economic gains vary between $40 and $100 billion for destination countries (Zwelling 2011; Herrick 2007).
While the increase of health care treatments and procedures performed abroad involves many elective procedures (Woodman 2010; Synder, Dharamsi and Crooks 2011, Milstein and Smith 2007), which many U.S.  health insurers deny payment, there is a growing interest by U.S.
health care insurers to pay for more expensive complex procedures, such as Coronary Arterial Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery.  Coronary bypass surgery, one of the most common cardiac surgical procedures performed, serves as a “cash cow” for many U.S.  hospitals (Crowley 2010).
Because cardiac surgery procedures provide high revenue, smaller local hospitals can market as offering a high-profile program in cardiac care even if the hospital has a low volume of bypass cases, thereby increasing patient volume and revenue (Regenbogen, Gust, Birkmeyer 2012).
Focusing on coronary bypass, a review of Medicare data (1992 – 2003) demonstrates a decline in coronary bypass surgical procedures from 1992 to 2003, while the number of hospitals performing these surgeries steadily increased (Wilson, et al.  2007).
Using Nationwide Inpatient Sample data (2001 – 2008), a study by Epstein et al (2011) supports Wilson’s et al review, demonstrating a decrease in the number of coronary bypass surgeries per hospital, yet a 12% increase in the number of hospitals during this period.
In an effort to lure Americans to seek care abroad, coronary bypass procedures have become one of several expensive health care procedures offered by larger health care facilities in India, Singapore, and Thailand.  This paper focuses on examining the growing interest of U.S.
individuals, employers, and health insurance providers for having coronary bypass performed in India, Thailand, or Singapore.
Costs of coronary bypass surgery is cited by more U.S.  individuals and companies providing employee health insurance as being the single most important factor of consideration for seeking coronary bypass surgery abroad.  Table 1 illustrates the cost comparison of coronary bypass surgery in the U.S.
with India, Thailand, and Singapore; these cost comparison figures are promoted throughout the medical tourism industry.
A comparison study of costs for coronary bypass surgery in two large hospitals in India, one in Thailand, and the overall California Insurer average cost payment, demonstrates the costs in India and Thailand did not exceed $15,000 while the California Insurer average (private insurance) exceeded
$50,000 (Milstein and Smith 2007).
 Completion of Program: This option may be used only one time.  The student is graduating during the current term and needs only ________ credits to complete the degree requirements.  The last course MUST be on campus (not online or at another university).
You will receive a new I-20/DS-2019 with a shortened program end date prior to graduation.   Graduate Students Taking Qualifying/Comprehensive Exam: This option may be used only one time.
The student is taking the qualifying/comprehensive exam this semester/quarter and will be registered for 6 credits.  The student must enroll full- time during all subsequent semesters of coursework, even if the exams need to be repeated.
 Graduate students working on a degree REQUIRED project: The student is either completing all coursework this term and is also working on a REQUIRED project or has already completed all coursework and is only working on a REQUIRED project.
The student must be enrolled in at least one special problems credit hour (594 or 597) each term until completion of the program.
 Medical Condition: Cannot accumulate more than 12 months of Reduced Course Load exemption for this reason per academic program.
The student has shown a letter from a licensed US medical doctor/clinical psychologist that he/she should take a reduced course load/refrain from taking courses during the current term.  Please attach the letter to this form.
 Impending failure of a course, financial hardship, or intent to delay graduation are NOT acceptable reasons to take a reduced course load.  Students working on a thesis/dissertation and enrolled in 591/691 or LAW 895 are considered to be enrolled full-time do not require this form.
Our office has implemented a policy which will help to reduce the cost of healthcare for both you and the practice.  As a benefit to you, we will ask for a credit card number to be held securely until your charges have been processed.
Once we have confirmed with your insurance company the amount owed by you, the credit card on file will be charged.  A copy of the receipt will be mailed to you for your records.
Federal law requires the New York City Department of Education (DOE) to provide names, addresses, and telephone numbers of 11th and 12th grade high school students to military recruiters and institutions of higher education that request this information, except where the parent or student opts out
by notifying the DOE in writing that he/she does not consent to release this information.
While we are committed to protecting the confidentiality of our students, we must comply with the law.
If you do not consent to the disclosure of this information, you must fill out the following form and return it to your child’s school by October 23, 2020.
If you do not return the form by this date and your child is a student in the 11th or 12th grade, we will release your child’s information upon request.
However, please be aware that if you choose not to return the form at this time, you may do so at any time during your child’s school career and the request for non-disclosure will be honored.  For parents of 9th and 10th grade students, the opt-out form can be completed and saved in advance.
Federal law requires the New York City Department of Education (DOE) to provide names, addresses, and telephone numbers of 11th and 12th grade high school students to military recruiters and institutions of higher education that request this information, except where the parent or student opts out
by notifying the DOE in writing that he/she does not consent to release this information.
While we are committed to protecting the confidentiality of our students, we must comply with the law.
If you do not consent to the disclosure of this information, you must fill out the attached form and return it to your school by October 23, 2020.  If you do not return the form by this date and you are a student in the 11th or 12th grade, we will release your information upon request.
However, please be aware that if you choose not to return the form at this time, you may do so at any time during your school career and the request for non-disclosure will be honored.  If you are a student in the 9th or 10th grade, the opt-out form can be completed and saved by the school.
prices of single-brand medicines listed on the Pharmaceutical Benefits after 5 years 10 years and 15 years of listing, respectively (203).  This presumably would ensure companies not accruing excessive returns for medicines with long periods of exclusivity.
It might also incentivize the companies to work with clinicians for faster adoption of the medicines in clinical practice so as to maintain its profitability through increased volume.
industry for anti-infectives overall, and significantly better than for other therapeutic areas, such as neurol- ogy and oncology.
One difficulty with such an analysis is that new chemotypes have an inherently higher risk than additional members of established chemical classes, other than the risks of failure due to resistance (which are higher for drugs that have been used for many years).
For this review’s new analysis (Table 8), new chemotypes are separated from life-cycle management projects.  The overall success rates have not changed significantly in the last 3 years, either for MMV or for the CMR benchmark, which is reassuring.
The data shows that a new molecule in formal preclinical evaluation has an 8% chance of becoming part of a product.
The naïve interpretation of this is that no more than 13 candidate compounds would be needed for a reasonable chance of launching one new medicine, and 25 for a com- bination with two NCEs (new chemical entities).
How- ever, if one aims for a 90% overall chance of success (P), the number of candidates n, each with a success probabil- ity s (8%) is described by the negative binomial distribu- tion in Eq.  1.
medicine when following up n candidate molecules.  The numerical solutions for this equation show that at least 48 molecules are to be evaluated for this probability to exceed 90%.
The MMV discovery portfolio was built and funded to deliver two new preclinical candidates per year, and allowing for a third molecule coming from else- where, then this would still require some 16 years’ invest- ment per combination, except if there is a considerable increase in success rates going
forwards (and a justifica- tion for this), or significantly increased investment.
The hope on the horizon is that many of the new molecules are first-in-class, and so should they fail in clinical devel- opment there will be scope for well-defined back-up pro- jects, and these are normally much more cost-effective programmes.
The definition of new molecular targets also opens up new possibilities for engaging the wider research community, allowing access to resources such as the EU’s European Lead Factory, which considers molec- ular targets but not phenotypic approaches.
The factors underlying these metrics merit closer atten- tion.  The increased stringency of review of projects at the lead and preclinical candidate stages means that the quality of compounds is theoretically improving, so future success rates may be underestimated [112].
Of the 16 molecules entering preclinical development from the MMV portfolio since 2009, only four have been aban- doned, with six moving successfully to phase I, and a fur- ther seven working their way through safety studies, with four new phase I starts expected in 2017.  As Fig.
3 with plots for Eq.  1 shows, doubling the success rate for indi- vidual candidate molecules (from 8 to 16%) more than halves the number that need to be evaluated.  One area for possible improvement is the success rate in phase III,.
This equation represents the relationship between P, or the overall probability of discovering two or more suc- cessful medicines, the number n of candidate molecules pursued, and success probability s for each candidate.
In this expression the left term denotes the overall fail- ure to discover at least two successful medicines from a set of n candidate molecules.  The terms on the right add the probabilities of finding zero, or exactly one successful.
d Stage success rate of 60% for combining two medicines has been added into reflect the potential for unfavourable drug–drug interactions that prevents further development of a combination.
However, as discussed in the text, this may be an underestimate, since it does not include additional risk because of the change in endpoints between parasite reduction in phase IIa (APCR on day 14 or 28) and ACPR day 28 in phase IIb.
No additional allowance has been made for the risk that a medicine may fail because it is not possible to produce a pediatric presentation.
Protocol (IP) addresses] were gathered monthly for the first year from the journal websites.  Known robot activity (software robots downloading all free material for indexing purposes, e.g., Google) was removed from the data set before analysis to arrive at a more accurate estimate of human activity.
Citation figures were gathered monthly from the Web of Science (http://www.isiknowledge.com) for the first 3 yr after article publication.
While journals control the primary access route to articles, it is common in some disciplines and at some institutions for authors to self-archive some version of their articles on public websites or in digital repositories.
To obtain an estimate of the extent and effects of self-archiving, we wrote a Perl script to search for PDF copies of articles anywhere on the Internet (ignoring the publisher’s website) 1 yr after publication.
We attempted to identify as many instances of self-archiving as possible, while minimizing the number of false positives.
Readership analysis was conducted on the 20 science journals in our data set (n(cid:1)2903).
Articles published in the social sciences and humanities journals (n(cid:1)350) were omitted from the readership analysis, as many did not include abstract or full-text versions of their articles, and, in some cases, refer- ence views were added to full-text views, resulting in indeter- minate and
incomparable results.
Citation analyses were conducted on the entire article data set (n(cid:1)3245).  A logistic regression model was used to estimate the likelihood of articles in each experimental group being cited within the first year after publication, controlling for journal and journal category effects.
Multivariate linear regression models were used to estimate the effect of the open access treatment on article readership and citations.
Covariates in these models include the journal in which the article appeared, type of article (review, other), length of article (in pages), number of authors, and whether the article was self-archived.
Continuous variables (page length, number of authors, and number of citations) were log transformed to adhere to the assumption of normality re- quired for linear regression.
As we were not interested in estimating citation effects for each particular journal, but to control for the variation in journal effects generally, journals were considered random effects in the regression models.
In analyzing article citations, 1 was added to each citation count prior to log transformation as some articles received 0 citations during the observation period.
While adding 1 shifts the citation distribution to the right, we were interested primarily in the slopes of the regression lines and not their intercepts.
To interpret the results of the regression equation, estimates of log-transformed variables were exponentiated in order to arrive at their multiplicative effect (ME).
For exam- ple, if the logCitation estimate were 0.5, the ME of this estimate would be e0.5 or 1.65, representing a 65% increase in citations.
(HTML) downloads on average (115%; 95% CI, 103– 129%) and, to a lesser degree, a significant increase in the number of full image (PDF) downloads (62%; 95% CI, 53–72%).
As measured by IP addresses, freely accessible articles received roughly a third more unique visitors (31%; 95% CI, 25–37%), while abstract views decreased by 22% (95% CI, (cid:2)18 to (cid:2)26%).
Open access articles were cited no more frequently than subscription-access articles.  The estimate of cita- tion effect at 3 yr was (cid:3)1%, statistically indistinguish- able from 0 (ME 1.01; 95% CI, 0.95–1.08; P(cid:1)0.669; Table 2).
Earlier citation estimates revealed similarly small, nonsignificant results (3% at 12 mo, 4% at 18 mo, 2% at 24 mo, and 2% at 30 mo).  Figure 1 provides a visual comparison of results by subject category.
In comparison, review articles, the number of au- thors, and page length were all significant predictors of article citations (Table 1).
Articles that were self-ar- chived showed a positive effect on citations ((cid:3)11%), although this estimate was not significant (ME 1.11; 95% CI, 0.92–1.33; P (cid:1) 0.266).  Just 65 articles (2%) in our data set were self-archived, however, limiting the statistical power of our test.
Openaccessarticleswerenomorelikelytobecitedwithin their first year (odds ratio 0.96; P(cid:1)0.74; Table 3).
The percentage of articles that received at least 1 citation within their first year ranged from just 10% for the humanities journals to nearly all (97.5%) for the multi- disciplinary journal.  None of the journals—analyzed to- gether or in subject groupings—show significant odds.
***** Nehodící se škrtněte. Průběžná zpráva spolu se žádostí o druhou splátku se zasílá pouze v případě více než 12 měsíců trvajících projektů **** Koupě půdy nebo nákupy/výstavba budov jsou povoleny pouze v případě, kdy je to naprosto nezbytné pro implementaci projektu
Table 10. The quantities in columns 2-9 are defined in Subsection 6.1. Row 2 corresponds to the commercial claims data of [Blumen et al, 2016]. Rows 3-6 correspond to the Medicare data of [Schrag, 2015]. Row 7 corresponds to the data reported in [Styperek and Kimball, 2012].
Table 11.  Cancer site abbreviations in column 1 are the same as in Table 3.  Column 2 = mean estimated spending based on [NCI, 2017b] (which uses the “head-and-neck” nomenclature for Oral = oral cavity and pharynx cancer), and column 3 = standard deviation (see Subsection 6.2).
Column 4 = number of estimated new incidences as reported in [ACS, 2017] and [Siegel et al, 2017].  Column 5 = estimated per-new-incidence spending.  The factors (column 6) and rate (column 7) are taken from Table 10 for breast, colorectal, lung and prostate cancers and melanoma (bold font).
For other cancer sites the factor is extrapolated from the values in Table 10 (italicized font) and rate is taken from Table 3 (regular font) or extrapolated therefrom (italicized font).  See Subsection 6.1.  The relative cost-savings (column 8) are obtained via Eq.  (12) and Eq.
(13), and cost-savings from early diagnosis (column 9) via Eq.  (15), where the factor is set to 1 for all cancer sites except breast cancer, for which .
➢ São aceitos para reembolso nota fiscal (pessoa jurídica) ou recibo (pessoa física) datado e assinado pelo executor; I - se pessoa física: recibo deve ser emitido pelo profissional contendo número do registro no respectivo conselho regional e número de inscrição no cadastro de contribuintes do
Ministério da Fazenda – CPF, endereço e ou CNS do profissional; II - se pessoa jurídica: a nota fiscal deve ser emitida contendo número de registro no CNPJ;.
All Seattle Public Schools choice assignments are subject to space availability.  Completing this form does not guarantee an assignment.
Some programs and/or support services may not be offered at your preferred school- a list of program offerings and locations are available online at www.seattleschools.org/admissions/school_finder.
New students must first register online at www.seattleschools.org/admissions to obtain their student identification number.  Non-resident and Early Entrance Kindergarten students are not eligible to participate in the Open Enrollment School Choice process.
*Sibling Tiebreaker, if applicable: (For the tiebreaker to apply: A. At least one of the older siblings must be attending the choice school in the current and following school year- 2018–19 and 2019–20; B. the choice application must be received during the on-time period: Feb. 4-15, 2019.)
☐ Native Heritage Speakers: My student is a fluent speaker of Spanish or Japanese and is applying for dual language immersion at either John Stanford or McDonald International.
I understand that a proficiency test required for K and 1st grade prior for language placement but grades 2–5 is for admittance only.  I understand that my student is not guaranteed an assignment in their preferred language unless they pass the proficiency assessment.
In this method, we first build a SVM to separate positive relationships from negative, neutral and no-relationship.  We then build a SVM to separate negative from neutral and no- relationship.  Finally we separate neutral from no-relationship.
Such an ordering is chosen on the basis of both manual observations and empirical evaluation.
Here we build a SVM to separate neutral and no-relationships first from positive and negative ones.  We then build two other SVMs to separate between neutral and no-relationship and between positive and negative relationships, respectively.
The above combination strategy is based on analyses of our dataset, which shows that positive and negative relationships often exhibit similar characteristics when compared against the other two types.
For strength analysis we build the SVRs using the entire training set without categorizing the existing records according to polarity. We also tried a variation of this approach by building individual SVRs based on polarity but found that polarity has no effect on the strength analysis.
We evaluate four kernel functions when building a SVM or a SVR, including linear, sigmoid, polynomial and radial-bias function (RBF). We explore a variety of kernel combinations for building the multi-stage classifiers for polarity analysis as reported in the next section.
In this section, we report the main results to demonstrate that the proposed feature space can effectively predict the polarity and strength of the relationships extracted from biomedical literature.
These results also indicate that not every feature contributes equally to the two problems under study.  The annotated corpus described in section 2 is used for our evaluation studies.
(See Tables 4-5 for the corpus distribution according to polarity and strength.) We perform 10-fold cross validation throughout our evaluation.  Classification accuracy is primarirly used to measure the performance of each SVM, whereas prediction accuracy is used for each SVR.
We use the SVMLight package by [23] for our experiments.
Table 6 lists the model accuracy for polarity analysis based on various feature combinations and kernel functions.  To understand this table, let us take an example of the row with feature combination (2+5) for the One vs.  All method.
(2+5) represents the feature combination of POS-based unigrams with WordNet correction and unary semantics-based sequential structures.  The column L1 lists the best kernel function used to separate the positive polarity from the rest, which is the polynomial kernel for the feature set (2+5).
The column L2 gives the best kernel function used to separate negative from (neutral and no- relationship).  The same level2 kernel is used to separate neutral from no-relationship.  In the case of (2+5), the RBF kernel delivers the best result.  The columns +, -, = and .
list the average accuracy for each of the polarities after 10-fold cross validation using the.
kernel functions under columns L1 and L2.  The overall accuracy calculates the accuracy of a given model over all four polarity classes using 10-fold cross validation.  This is listed under the column OA.  Finally, the column SE indicates the standard error of the overall accuracy.
The highlighted columns represent the best overall accuracy obtained after 10-fold cross validations including both one vs.  all and two vs.  two methods.
Table 6 Polarity classification results using the 2 SVM schemas and different feature sets.  Column notations: L1-- level 1 of the SVM, L2--level 2 of the SVM, L--linear kernel, P--polynomial kernel), R--RBF kernel, OA--overall accuracy, + (Positive), - (Negative), = (Neutral), .  (No-relationship).
Feature notations: 1--Penn Treebank based Unigram, 2-- unigrams with WordNet based POS correction, 3--Binary semantics-based features), 4--K-ary semantics-based features, 5--unary semantics based features, and 6--bigrams.  The top three models are highlighted.
Note that the standard error is that of the overall accuracy.
From Table 6, one can observe that the positive polarity constantly has high accuracy for both methods as compared to the other polarities.  One main reason we believe is that the annotated corpus has a large number of positive examples as shown in Table 4.
We also observe that the “no-relationship” has a constantly high accuracy and is not influenced by other feature combinations.  The reason behind this is that the unigrams found in the relationships that have “no relationship” polarity often contain unique negation terms such as “no” and ‘not”.
Therefore unigrams alone are often sufficient.  The accuracy of neutral relationships is low because neutral and positive relationships tend to contain.
Any proposed automated medical diagnosis system, which is constructed using data mining methodology, will help the doctors to diagnose the correct disease in less time [33].
Table:1 highlights a few of such system’s leading objectives along with their associated authors working in the field of predicting medical disease(s) using data mining technique.
Common data mining techniques which are used in almost all the sectors are listed as: Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, Artificial neural network (ANN), K- nearest neighborhood (KNN), Support vector machine (SVM) etc.
In order to improve the success of healthcare organization and health of the patients, the knowledge gained by data mining can be exercised for booming research problems in the associated arena [33].
The undersigned hereby voluntarily consents to undergo a health screening test performed by Healthwaves.  I understand that it is not possible to diagnose or define any disease or problem with a single test alone, and that a screening cannot detect every health problem.
For example, a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test cannot detect all prostate cancers.  I understand these tests are for screening purposes only and are not diagnostic tests or a substitute for a more complete examination by a physician.
Blood test results can fluc- tuate from day to day due to changes in the individual and from laboratory variation.  As a result, a test may be abnormal at one time and not another.  If any of my results fall outside normal ranges, I understand I should see a physician for a follow up evaluation.
Often a retest by your physician will be necessary.  A new sterile needle is used for each blood test.  I understand possible but infrequent side effects include fainting, bacterial infection, or bruising (hematoma) at the puncture site.
In rare circumstances, I may be contacted for a redraw due to a poor lab sample.  I understand that because these are screenIng tests, they are not reImbursable under most Insurance plans.
Screening tests are being performed per the direction and authority of the Healthwaves Medical Director, Patrick N.  Connell, M.D.  or as otherwise designated on the laboratory requisition or results forms.
Healthwaves practices in accordance with the HIPAA regulations as pertains to privacy practices and patient confidentiality regarding protected health information.
WHEREAS, on March 16, 2020 the Town of Dedham, through the Board of Selectmen, Town Administrator and Board of Health, has determined that COVID-19 poses a significant, immediate threat to the public health, safety, and welfare of people residing both within and outside the Town of Dedham and, as
such, has declared a Local State of Emergency; and.
Clinicians should individualise adjustments based on patient-specific symptoms, symptom severity, academic demands, as well as pre-existing conditions, such as mood disorder, learning disability or attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder.87 88 Athletes with complicated or prolonged recovery may
require a multidisciplinary team with specific expertise across the scope of concussion management.
return-to-sport progression is individualised and is a function of the injury, the athlete’s age, prior SRC and level of play, and the ability to provide close supervision during the return to activity.
The return-to-sport progression presented by the CISG is widely accepted but empiric, without evidence to support either the progression sequence or the time spent in each stage.
In general, for young athletes, each stage of the progression should be at least 24 hours without return of symptoms before progressing to the next stage.  (C).
In addition to return to learning and sporting environments, older athletes may need to return to driving, where subtle defi- cits could compromise safety.
Most sports medicine physicians do not counsel athletes with SRC about driving.90 Driving is a complex process involving coordination of cognitive, visual and motor skills, as well as concentration, attention, visual percep- tion, insight and memory, which can all be affected by SRC.90 Little is
known about the risk of driving after SRC, but prelim- inary data suggest some impairment exists when patients with concussion report they are asymptomatic.91 Currently, no widely.
Continuing to play immediately following a concussion is a risk for increased symptom burden, worsening of the injury and prolonged recovery.92–95 Athletes who return to sport prior to full recovery are at increased risk of repeat concussion.96 Some research has demonstrated that athletes who return
to sport after SRC following standard return to sport protocols had an increased rate of musculoskeletal injury.97 98 The ‘Second Impact Syndrome’ is both rare and controversial.
It is considered by some to be a potentially life-threatening complication of reinjury during the initial postinjury time period that is not fully under- stood and appears primarily limited to paediatric and adolescent athletes.99 (C).
/B l is h e d a s 1 0 .1 1 3 6 /b js p o r ts - 2 0 1 8 - 1 0 0 3 3 8 o n 3 1 J a n u a r y 2 0 1
Return-to-sport progressions should be individualised based on the injury, athlete’s age, history and level of play, and the ability to provide close supervision during the return to activity, and progressions may vary between athletes.
Each stage is generally 24 hours without return of concussion symptoms.  Consider written clearance from a healthcare professional before return to sport as directed by local laws and regulations.3.
Mental health problems and depression Sport and exercise are protective against depression.100 Most studies examining the relationship of contact sports to mental health problems or depression later in life have low methodolog- ical quality, high risk of bias or both.101–103 Several studies have
reported that NFL and college football athletes with a history of concussion are more likely to experience depression, although the risk of mental health issues, including suicide, among former NFL players is lower than age-matched controls.101–103 Former high school football players show no
difference in cognitive func- tion testing and have lower depression scores when compared with non-contact sport controls.104 Mental health issues are common, multifactorial and often present independent of partic- ipation in contact or collision sport.
Longitudinal research on contact sport athletes that addresses multiple variables is needed to understand the long-term risks.  (C).
The Scarsdale School District strives to provide the highest quality education to all of its students.  As children develop and acquire critical skills needed to meet curricula demands, some students may occasionally require additional assistance.
Based upon consultation with your child’s teacher and a review of formal and informal assessments, ​STUDENT’S NAME​, has been scheduled to receive support in the Learning Resource Center for help in ​TARGETED AREA(S).
Mr./Ms./Mrs.  (​Name of Provider​) will be working with your child ​_____​ times in the six-day cycle with each session being ​______​ minutes in length.  Progress will be monitored and reviewed every six to eight weeks and you will be informed accordingly.
You will also be informed if and when changes to the plan are recommended.  05 02.
At any time, you may request the Committee on Special Education (CSE) conduct an initial evaluation to determine your child’s needs and eligibility for special education programs and services.
This request must be made in writing and may be submitted to the Principal, or sent to the CSE, 2 Brewster Road, Scarsdale, NY 10583.  For more information, you may speak with the school psychologist in your building, or with me.
If you are declining enrollment for yourself or your dependents (including your spouse) because of other health insurance coverage, you may in the future be able to enroll yourself or your dependents in this health plan, provided that you request enrollment within 30 days after your other coverage
ends.
In addition, if you have a new dependent as a result of marriage, birth, adoption, or placement for adoption, you may be able to enroll yourself and your dependents, provided that you request enrollment within 30 days after the marriage, birth, adoption, or placement for adoption.
I affirm that the assertions in this form are true and complete to the best of my knowledge, and I understand that Harvard Pilgrim has the right to terminate coverage, retroactive to the effective date of coverage, for any material misinformation (including omissions) contained in this form.
One important note: as volatility rises and falls, the strike price range of options with non-zero bids tends to expand and contract. As a result, the number of options used in the VIX Index calculation may vary from month-to-month, day-to-day and possibly, even minute-to-minute.
> Determine the forward SPX level, F, by identifying the strike price at which the absolute difference between the call and put prices is smallest.  The call and put prices in the following table reflect the midpoint of each option’s bid / ask quotation.
As shown below, the difference between the call and put prices is smallest at the 1965 strike for the near- and the 1960 strike for the next-term options.
> Next, determine K 0 - the strike price equal to or otherwise immediately below the forward index level, F - for the near- and next- term options.  In this example, K 0, 1 = 1960 and K 0, 2 = 1960.  > Select out-of-the-money put options with strike prices < K 0.
Start with the put strike immediately lower than K 0 and move to successively lower strike prices.  Exclude any put option that has a bid price equal to zero (i.e., no bid).
As shown below, once two puts with consecutive strike prices are found to have zero bid prices, no puts with lower strikes are considered for inclusion.  (Note that the 1350 and 1355 put options are not included despite having non-zero bid prices.).
As imagens médicas em fotografia ou vídeo destinam-se a ficar disponíveis no processo clínico para comparação com outras, anteriormente realizadas ou a realizar no futuro, permitindo avaliar com mais fidelidade a evolução clínica e eventualmente para ajuda diagnóstica; ou, ainda, para poderem ser
mostradas em comunicações a reuniões científicas, discussão de caso clínicos (por exemplo em clubes de dismorfologia) ou no ensino médico e na formação contínua para profissionais de saúde.
Em qualquer caso, é garantido que haverá ocultação de dados de identificação da pessoa.  A não ser que esta ou os seus repre- sentantes legais não o autorizem expressamente, será incluída a face dada a sua enorme relevância para o diagnóstico de síndromes.
Foram-me fornecidas informações gerais de forma adequada e inteligível acerca dos procedimentos necessários ao ato acima referido.
Foi-me também explicado que a minha autorização pode ser retirada, em qualquer altura, sem que isso cause qualquer prejuízo ou afete os cuidados que me são prestados pelo CGPP a mim ou à minha família.
Confirmo que expliquei à pessoa acima indicada, de forma adequada e inteligível, a necessidade e finalidade da gravação de imagens em fotografia e/ou vídeo e os procedimentos respetivos.
Respondi a todas as questões que me foram colocadas e assegurei-me de que houve um período de reflexão suficiente para a tomada da decisão.  Também garanti que, em caso de recusa, serão assegurados os melhores cuidados possíveis nesse contexto, no respeito pelos seus direitos.
In the clinical laboratory, sleep is defined by its electro- encephalography (EEG) in concert with electromyog- raphy (EMG), electrooculography (EOG) and other telemetry.
Using polysomnographic recordings, sleep can be classified into rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep.
The NREM sleep is further classified into 3 sleep stages namely Stage N1 sleep, Stage N2 sleep, and stage N3 sleep (also known as slow wave sleep, delta sleep or deep sleep), based primarily on the occurrence of synchronous physiologic EEG potentials.
Drowsy awake with eyes closed is defined by the presence of alpha - the fre- quency with the most power on spectral analysis.  Sleep onset (Stage N1) is generally defined as occurring at the point in which there is a decline of alpha rhythm (9– 11 Hz) to less than 50% of the recorded epoch.
Stage N2 sleep is denoted by bursts of sleep spindles at sigma fre- quency (11–16 Hz) and K-complex events - electro- physiological down states known to negatively affect the general tendency of neurons to develop spike potential activity (Cash et al.  2009).
Deep sleep (stage N3 sleep) oc- curs in association with delta frequency oscillations (0.5– 1.5 Hz).  REM sleep is characterized by bursts of intracra- nial theta (5–8 Hz), with alpha and gamma oscillations noted in scalp recordings, associated with conjugate eye.
movements and diminished skeletal EMG activity.  Medi- cations producing CNS-related behavioral effects generally affect background EEG frequencies (Mamdema and Dan- hof 1992).
In most cases, a consistent pattern of EEG change produced by a drug is associated with a consistent pattern of behavioral change (Hermann and Schaerer 1986).
Psychoactive drugs produce alterations in physio- logic EEG rhythms consistent across therapeutic classifica- tions and utilized to predict the behavioral activity of new preparations, drug interactions and toxicities (Blume 2006) (Table 2).
Sleep regulation is a complex interaction between the homeostatic and the endogenous circadian processes (Borbély et al.  2016).  The circadian processes of sleep are largely controlled by the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in the hypothalamus (Dai et al.  1998; Hofman et al.  1996; Swaab et al.
1985; Vimal et al.  2009).  This in- ternal human clock responds to external factors with the greatest influence being exposure to light/dark (LD) cycle (Lewy et al.  1980; Morin 2015).
The other import- ant element to the timing of the sleep/wake cycle is the endogenously produced neural hormone melatonin, pro- duced by the pineal gland in response to signals from the SCN.
Melatonin can induce sedation, an effect sometimes utilized to assist children in tolerating med- ical procedures (Johnson et al.  2002).  In addition to regulation of the sleep/wake cycle, body temperature and numerous other processes vary with circadian rhythm (Sack et al.  2007).
Externally introduced.
***** Nehodící se škrtněte. Průběžná zpráva spolu se žádostí o druhou splátku se zasílá pouze v případě více než 12 měsíců trvajících projektů **** Koupě půdy nebo nákupy/výstavba budov jsou povoleny pouze v případě, kdy je to naprosto nezbytné pro implementaci projektu
The owner of the above-referenced policy hereby appoints the below-named individual(s) as limited attorney-in-fact to: 1) transfer policy values among the available investment divisions; 2) change contribution allocations; and 3) make changes to instructions, initiate, or cease participation in the
Dollar Cost Averaging and Automatic Rebalancing programs.
This authorization is subject to the following:.
2.
The owner and the limited attorney-in-fact, their heirs, legal representatives, their successors and assigns each release the Company from any liability for acting in reliance upon any instruction given pursuant to this authorization; and they jointly and severally agree to indemnify the Company
against any claim, liability or expense, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of any action or inaction made in reliance upon such instructions.
3.  The Company or the limited attorney-in-fact may cease to honor this authorization by sending written notice to the owner and each other at the most recent address listed in their file.
The owner may revoke this authorization by sending written notice of such revocation to the Company at the address shown above, which will be effective only when received and recorded by the Company.  4.
A separate limited power of attorney must be completed for each policy over which such authorization is desired to be given.  Authorization may be granted only to specified individuals, not to corporate or partnership entities.  5.
This limited power of attorney/authorization is personal to the holder and may not be delegated to any other person or organization.  The Company will not accept instructions from any person or organization purporting to be authorized by the limited attorney-in-fact.
Further, the limited attorney-in-fact agrees to follow the Company’s instructions and procedures and shall be subject to all provisions of the policy and the offering prospectus for making such transfers.
We present results on three tasks.  The first two tasks are ranking ones.  In task one, we attempt to learn to rank lists of scientific articles grouped by day.  In task two, we per- form the same task, but on lists of scientific articles grouped by week.
For task three, we consider the binary task of dif- ferentiating between scientific articles with real coverage and those with coverage only from press release issuers and copiers.
SeeTable3 forresultsforthis experiment.Inlinewith previ- ous research, textual bag-of-words features provide baseline performance higher than just metadata features.
The model using all features performs the best, but it does not statisti- cally significantly outperform models using all textual fea- tures or metadata, title and press release features.
Table 4 lists the top features for the best performing fea- ture set, all features.  Due to the nonlinear nature of gradient boosted trees, we are unable to exactly determine the po- larity of different features, only their importances, given by the number of times on which they were split.
We approxi- mate feature polarity by the difference in average relevance of documents with and without each feature.
To note, interpretation of these features, especially single features, is highly conjectural.  Regardless, we provide some discussion and speculation.  As expected, coverage on Eu- rekAlert.
or Science Daily is very predictive, as are gener- ally popular and unpopular subjects such as medicine (pop- ular) and chemistry (unpopular).  As can be seen in table 4,.
Results from the tests showed that the average value of critical thinking ability to the average achievement after the testing ended, showed the relationship was statistically significant (.05).
As a result, the researchers compared the results of Table 4 and determined that after the posttest, data showed the average of critical thinking ability and post-learning achievement were higher than before the study.
I ____________________________ authorize the Roseville Area Chamber of Commerce to charge (print full name) my credit card on the TBD by Chamber of each (circle one) month/qtr.
for membership investments (day or date) and/or for purposes of keeping on file for event and other chamber related offerings/charges.  Rafal Cieslak.
In addition to the VIX Index, Cboe calculates several other broad market volatility indexes including the Cboe Short- Term Volatility Index (VIX9DSM), which reflects 9-day expected volatility of the S&P 500 Index, the Cboe S&P 500® 3-Month Volatility Index (VIX3MSM), Cboe S&P 500® 6-Month Volatility
Index (VIX6MSM) and the Cboe S&P 500 1-Year Volatility Index (VIX1YSM).
Cboe also calculates the Nasdaq-100® Volatility Index (VXNSM), Cboe DJIA® Volatility Index (VXDSM) and the Cboe Russell 2000® Volatility Index (RVXSM).
Perhaps one of the most valuable features of the VIX Index is the existence of more than 25 years of historical prices.  This extensive data set provides investors with a useful perspective of how option prices have behaved in response to a variety of market conditions.
Price history for the original Cboe Volatility Index (VXO) based on OEX options is available from 1986 to the present.
Cboe has created a similar historical record for the new VIX Index dating back to 1990 so that investors can compare the new VIX Index with VXO, which reflects information about the volatility “skew” or “smile.”.
The VIX Index is a volatility index comprised of options rather than stocks, with the price of each option reflecting the market’s expectation of future volatility.
Like conventional indexes, the VIX Index calculation employs rules for selecting component options and a formula to calculate index values.  Some different rules and procedures apply when calculating the VIX Index value to be used for the final settlement value of VIX futures and options.
For more information about those differences, refer to the section below titled “The Calculation of the Final Settlement Value for VIX Derivatives.”.
Please mail or fax a copy of this form to CARE, or call (910) 256-2624. Please retain a copy of this form for your tax purposes or if you would like us to mail you a tax receipt, please check here. _________
FOR AND IN CONSIDERATION of the covenants, premises and agreements contained herein as hereinafter set out, Owner does hereby let and rent unto Tenant, rental space located at the SERVCO RV STORAGE, 1200 & 1250 E. Grant St. Lebanon, OR 97355 for the following term:
1.  RENT: Tenant shall pay to Owner the sum of $________ per month, payable on the first each month in advance for the premises.  Tenant agrees to keep a valid credit card on file with owner at all times.
Tenant agrees to allow owner to charge the card for the monthly space rent if not paid by the 5th of the month.
2. LATE CHARGES: A late charge of $35.00 will be added to any monthly rental payment that is more than five (5) days past due. Notwithstanding such late charges, failure to pay and such monthly payment on or before the due date shall be deemed a default by Tenant under terms of this agreement.
The essential feature of this disorder is insomnia caused by a coexisting medical disorder or other physiological factor.
Although insomnia is commonly associated with many medi- cal conditions, this diagnosis should be used when the insomnia causes marked distress or warrants separate clinical attention.
This diagnosis is not used to explain insomnia that has a course independent of the associated medical disorder, and is not routinely made in individu- als with the “usual” severity of sleep symptoms for an associated medical disorder.
These two diagnoses are used for insomnia disorders that cannot be classified elsewhere but are suspected to be related to underlying mental disorders, psychological factors, behaviors, medical disorders, physiological states, or substance use or exposure.
These diagnoses are typically used when further evaluation is required to identify specific associated conditions, or when the patient fails to meet criteria for a more specific disorder.
ability to sleep and the daytime consequences of poor sleep, dis- torted beliefs and attitudes about the origins and meaning of the insomnia, maladaptive efforts to accommodate to the condition (e.g., schedule or lifestyle changes), and excessive time spent awake in bed.
The latter behavior is of particular significance in that it often is associated with “trying hard” to fall asleep and growing frustration and tension in the face of wakefulness.
Thus, the bed becomes associated with a state of waking arousal as this conditioning paradigm repeats itself night after night.
dependem do atendimento aos requisitos estabelecidos na Portaria Normativa n° 01/SEGRT/MP/2017; 5 – Para que o servidor receba regularmente o benefício deve apresentar, anualmente, até o último dia útil do mês de abril, todos os boletos e comprovantes de pagamento do período compreendido entre
janeiro e dezembro do ano anterior ou declaração da operadora do plano de saúde, contendo o demonstrativo dos valores pagos mensalmente pelo titular e seus dependentes; 6 – Aos servidores cuja prestação do plano de saúde seja inferior ao valor do custeio correspondente na tabela de ressarcimento a
contrapartida do IFCE é limitada ao valor efetivamente pago por beneficiário; 7 – Só será concedido o benefício após a entrega da documentação completa.
IMPORTANTE: - O benefício será devido a partir da data de entrada do processo de requerimento, desde que a.
Declaro que não recebo idêntico benefício em outro órgão público, bem como que não figuro como dependente para fins de recebimento deste benefício, estando ciente que a inveracidade das informações ora prestadas constituem falta grave, passível de punição nos termos da lei específica, inclusive com
a suspensão do benefício.
1.
Fica assegurado o reembolso nos limites das obrigações contratuais das despesas pelo beneficiário com assistência odontológica, nos casos de urgência ou emergência, quando não for possível a utilização dos serviços próprios, contratados, credenciados ou referenciados do plano e o acesso a livre
escolha de prestadores não participantes da rede credenciada.
4.  Os reembolsos são pagáveis conforme cronograma estipulado pela CAPESESP, após a entrega da documentação adequada, sendo os valores reembolsados de acordo com a Tabela de Pro- cedimentos Odontológicos praticada pela CAPESESP.  5.
Para o pagamento de reembolso é necessária a apresentação da documentação original abaixo, devidamente preenchida e assinada pelo titular, no prazo máximo de 01 ano contado da realização do evento ou da finalização do tratamento.
Na Nota Fiscal de serviços devem constar a devida identificação da instituição, com nome, número CGC, número da inscrição estadual, número da inscrição municipal e endereço, bem como a discriminação do nome do paciente atendido, os eventos realizados, seus respectivos valores unitários ou totais e a
data do atendimento.
O PACIENTE ou o RESPONSÁVEL acima identificado DECLARA que não autorizou a realização do ato acima identificado como “Objeto da Desistência ou Recusa”, ciente das implicações que podem ocorrer a partir da sua decisão, em especial, o risco de piora do seu estado de saúde ou de prejudicar o
diagnóstico e o tratamento de sua patologia, bem como outros riscos que podem surgir disso.
Declaro que estou ciente que a presente decisão é adotada de livre e espontânea vontade, após a ciência sobre os riscos e implicações que podem ocorrer a partir dela, bem como que essa decisão pode ser modificada posteriormente, sem que isso interfira em atendimento hospitalar futuro do paciente.
Abstract: This Technical Note provides descriptions and photographs that aid in identifying efflorescence and stains on brick- work.  It includes information on stain composition, factors that influence their occurrence, and stain prevention.
Key Words: carbonates, chlorides, efflorescence, manganese, rain water, silicates, stains, soluble salts, sulfates, vanadium.
Brick has been used to create beautiful buildings for centuries.  Most of these structures have a substantial history of outstanding performance.  In some instances the appearance is affected by the development of efflorescence or stains.
These may originate from materials in the brick or mortar, from adjacent materials, and from outside sourc- es such as cleaning agents.  Each has a particular chemical composition and a unique means of removal.
Identification of the origin of the efflorescence, stain or foreign material is the first step in returning brickwork to its proper appearance.  Some stains are often misidentified or are mistaken for efflorescence.
Since correctly identify- ing efflorescence or a stain can be difficult, it is recommended that experienced brick personnel or professionals verify the efflorescence or type of stain.  Misidentification may result in application of an inappropriate correction method.
When correctly identified, efflorescence and stains can generally be removed.  Inappropriate correction methods may result in further staining or damage of the brickwork.
Efflorescence is normally a harmless deposit of water- soluble, white salt crystals, as shown in Photo 1.  In some instances efflorescence may appear on mortar joints as shown in Photo 2.
Efflorescence may appear in limited areas on the surface of brickwork as shown in Photo 3 or, in extreme cases, cover the entire brickwork surface.
*Joint involvement refers to any swollen or tender joint on examina- tion.  Distal interphalangeal joints, first carpometacarpal joints, and first metatarsophalangeal joints are excluded from assessment.
Catego- ries of joint distribution are classified according to the location and numberoftheinvolvedjoints,withplacementintothehighestcategory possible based on the pattern of joint involvement.  “Large joints” refers to shoulders, elbows, hips, knees, and ankles.
“Small joints” refers to the metacarpophalangeal joints, proximal interphalangeal joints, second through fifth metatarsophalangeal joints, thumb inter- phalangeal joints, and wrists.  “Symmetric” is defined as bilateral involvement of at least 1 region.
In the category “(cid:5)10 joints,” at least 1 of the involved joints must be a small joint; the other joints can include any combination of large and additional small joints, as well as other joints not specifically listed elsewhere (e.g., temporomandibular, acromioclavicular, sternoclavicular,
etc.).
†Negative refers to IU values that are less than or equal to the upper limitofnormal(ULN)forthelaboratoryandassay;low-positiverefers to IU values that are higher than the ULN but (cid:3)3 times the ULN for the laboratory and assay; high-positive refers to IU values that are (cid:5)3 times the ULN
for the laboratory and assay.
Where rheumatoid factor (RF) information is only available as positive or negative, a positive result should be scored as low-positive for RF.  ACPA (cid:2) anti(cid:3)citrullinated protein antibody.
‡ Normal/abnormal is determined by local laboratory standards.  CRP (cid:2) C-reactive protein; ESR (cid:2) erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
§Duration of symptoms refers to patient self-report of the duration of signs or symptoms of synovitis (e.g., pain, swelling, tenderness) of joints that are clinically involved at the time of assessment, regardless of treatment status.
rules for the classification of such patients, it is appro- priate to have a single criteria system that could be applied to all patients; these issues were addressed by the expert panel during Phase 3.  Determination of the optimal cut point for defi- nite rheumatoid arthritis.
Determination of the optimal cut point to classify an individual as having definite RA.
was achieved using 2 complementary approaches, mir- roring the approaches used in the first 2 phases: data- informed and consensus-based.
From the consensus- based approach, the expert panel was asked to examine the rankings of case scenarios based on the new scoring system and to indicate, in their opinion, the point at which the cases changed from “probable” to “definite” RA.
Four cases were excluded due to missing domain information (n (cid:2) 2) or ineligibility (2 cases were more likely another diagnosis).  For the remaining 50 cases, the mean cut point defining definite RA was 65.7 (median 66.1; range 60.0–70.3) of a total possible score of 100.
A data-driven verification of that cut point was then attempted, in which the new scoring system was applied to 3 of the existing cohorts used for Phase 1 (the Etude et Suivi des Polyarthrites Indifferenciees Re- centes data set from France, the Norwegian data set, and the Rotterdam Early Arthritis
Cohort data set from Rotterdam) (25).
These cohorts were chosen based on the completeness of data and the collected variables, enabling calculation of the patients’ probability scores at baseline.  The disease characteristics of these cohorts were not substantively different from those of the re- maining cohorts (data not shown).
The area under the curve (AUC) for the 3 receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves (which plot sensitivity against 1 (cid:3) specificity for the range of scores) indicated good discrimination of those who did versus those who did not receive MTX (or another DMARD/biologic agent) within a year
(AUC 0.82 for Norway, 0.66 for France, and AUC 0.69 for Rotterdam; P (cid:4) 0.0001 for all).
The probability scores similarly discriminated between those who fulfilled the 1987 ACR criteria at 12 months and those who did not (AUC for the ROC curves 0.88 [Norway], 0.67 [France], and 0.72 [Rotterdam]).
Visual inspection of the diagnostic test parameters associated with curves that used MTX initi- ation as the outcome showed a maximum slope for both the positive and negative likelihood ratios between a score of 60/100 and 70/100, with flattening thereafter (67 in the Norway cohort, 66 in the French
cohort, and 66 in the Rotterdam cohort).
The cut point of 60–70 that was derived from expert consensus was therefore supported by these data.  Given the consistency with the consensus- based approach, and to maximize sensitivity of the criteria, a cut point of 60 was deemed to be most appropriate.
Rationale for the composition and weight of the final criteria.  For development of the final criteria set, the results and weights from the comprehensive Phase 2 process (26) were used as a starting point.  Based on.
Eu, abaixo assinado, consenti de livre e espontânea vontade que uma amostra de minha urina fosse colhida e testada para a presença de drogas de abuso, sob supervisão direta do responsável pela coleta.
Eu isento todos os médicos, profissionais de laboratório, hospitais, clínicas, laboratórios e empresas envolvidos na realização deste teste e de todas e quaisquer responsabilidades advindas das informações contidas no resultado do meu teste.
Eu certifico que o número do lacre de segurança deste formulário é o mesmo presente no frasco que contém minha amostra, e que esta foi selada em minha presença.  Assinatura: _________________________________________ Data: _____/_____/_________ 03 03 2020.
I hereby consent to the release of any information maintained about me by all previous employers, educational institutions, law enforcement authorities, licensing boards or any other entity, agency, or individual which the University of South Florida may contact to secure references or records.
As reflected in the statutory new drug and new animal drug approval standards in sections 505 109 and 512 of the FD&C Act and the standard for licensure under section 351 of the PHS Act, the 110 evidence that is the basis for the risk assessment of a drug differs from the evidence that is the 111
basis for an effectiveness determination.
The effectiveness determination is generally intended 112 to evaluate a drug’s positive effect based on adequate and well-controlled trials designed to 113 evaluate a specific efficacy variable (or a discrete number of efficacy variables) for the purpose 114 of distinguishing the effect of the drug
from other influences.11 In contrast, FDA’s premarket 115 risk assessment is intended to identify and characterize the nature, frequency, and severity of the 116 usually broad spectrum of adverse events and other risks associated with the use of a product 117 based on a range of data sources.
For human drugs, the supporting data are generally not derived 118 from studies designed to test a specific safety hypothesis.
The assessment is based largely on 119 observations of adverse events from studies intended to assess effectiveness and includes all 120 patients exposed to the investigational drug during its development.
For animal drugs, there are 121 generally data from safety studies in the target animal, in addition to observations of adverse 122 events from studies intended to assess effectiveness.12 For both human and animal drugs, 123 relevant data are weighted and integrated, based on the nature and
reliability of the data sources, 124 into a coherent assessment of what adverse reactions are reasonably associated with the use of a 125 product and, to the extent possible, their frequency and severity.13 126.
Risk information is presented in various sections of the approved labeling.  The ADVERSE REACTIONS section is the repository for all adverse reactions associated with a drug.
Depending on the seriousness or other important clinical implications of an adverse reaction, it may also be discussed in greater detail in other labeling sections, in particular the WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, CONTRAINDICATIONS, and BOXED WARNING sections.14 For example, the ADVERSE REACTIONS section
of approved human drug labeling is explicitly required to “describe the overall adverse reaction profile of the drug based on the entire safety database.”15 The threshold for inclusion of an adverse event16 in approved human drug labeling is a determination that “there is some basis to believe there
is a causal relationship between the drug and the occurrence of the adverse event.”17 Whether there is some basis to believe there is a causal relationship is a matter of judgment based on factors such as: (1) the frequency of reporting of the event, (2) whether the adverse event rate for a drug
exceeds the placebo rate, (3) the extent of dose-response, (4) the extent to which the adverse event is consistent with the pharmacology of the drug, (5) the timing of the event relative to the time of drug exposure, (6).
The statewide assessments are how we as a state measure that curriculum and daily instruction in our schools are being aligned to the academics standards, ensuring all students are being provided an equitable education.
Statewide assessment results are just one tool to monitor that we are providing our students with the education that will ensure a strong workforce and knowledgeable citizens.
• In Minnesota’s implementation of the federal Every Student Succeeds Act, a student not participating in the statewide assessments will not receive an individual score and for the purpose of school and district accountability calculations, including opportunities for support and recognition, will
not be considered “proficient.”.
• Parents and the general public use assessment information to compare schools and make decisions about where to purchase a home or to enroll their children.
• School performance results that are publicly released and used by families and communities, are negatively impacted if students do not participate in assessments.
The Minnesota K–12 Academic Standards are the statewide expectations for student academic achievement.  They identify the knowledge and skills that all students must achieve in a content area and are organized by grade level.
School districts determine how students will meet the standards by developing courses and curriculum aligned to the academic standards.
The statewide assessments in mathematics, reading, and science are used to measure whether students, and their school and district, are meeting the academic standards.  Statewide assessments are one measure of how well students are doing on the content that is part of their daily instruction.
It is also a measure of how well schools and districts are doing in aligning their curriculum and teaching the standards.
Minnesota Statutes, section 120B.31, subdivision 4a, requires the commissioner to create and publish a form for parents and guardians to complete if they refuse to have their student participate in state-required standardized assessments.  Your student’s district may require additional information.
School districts must post this three-page form on the district website and include it in district student handbooks.
To best support school district planning, please submit this form to the student’s school no later than January 15 of the academic school year.  For students who enroll after a statewide testing window begins, please submit the form within two weeks of enrollment.
A new refusal form is required each year parents/guardians wish to opt the student out of statewide assessments.
I understand that by signing this form, my school and I may lose valuable information about how well my student is progressing academically.  As a result, my student will not receive an individual score.
Refusing to participate in statewide assessments may impact the school, district, and state’s efforts to equitably distribute resources and support student learning; for the purpose of school and district accountability calculations, my student will not be considered “proficient.”.
If my student is in high school, I understand that by signing this form my student will not have an MCA score that could potentially save time and money by not having to take remedial, non-cr edit courses at a Minnesota State college or university.
If the bona fide religious beliefs of an adult or the parent, guardian or person in loco parentis of a child are contrary to the immunization requirements contained in this Part [Chapter 130A, Article 6, Part B], the adult or the child shall be exempt from the requirements.
Upon submission of a written statement of the bona fide religious beliefs and opposition to the immunization requirements, the person may attend the college, university, school or facility without presenting a certificate of immunization.
Pursuant to the aforementioned N.C.G.S.  130A-157, I, the undersigned, declare the immunization requirements as set forth in N.C.G.S.
130A-152 contrary to my bona fide religious beliefs and request, as permitted by the law, an exemption from the immunization requirements of your institution for my undersigned minor child under my legal care or guardianship.
Structured English Immersion (SEI) Program: A language acquisition program for English learners at the beginning levels of English language proficiency in which classroom instruction is provided in English, but with curriculum and a presentation designed for pupils who are learning English.
At minimum, students are offered ELD and access to grade level academic subject matter content.  Some assistance may be provided in the primary language when available.
English Language Mainstream (ELM): A language acquisition program for English learners at the intermediate or higher levels of English language proficiency.  At minimum, students are offered ELD and access to grade level academic subject matter content.
Students receive any additional support needed to recoup academic deficits that may have been incurred while learning English as a second language and be reclassified as fluent English proficient.  Dual-Language Immersion (DLI) Program: Also referred to as Two-Way Immersion.
A language acquisition program that provides language learning and academic instruction for native speakers of English and native speakers of Spanish, with the goals of high academic achievement, first and second language proficiency, and cross-cultural understanding.
This program begins in kindergarten (K) and is offered at Terrace and Valley View elementary schools.
student to which all of the following apply: (1) is enrolled in grades six through twelve, inclusive; and (2) has been enrolled in a U.S.
school for six or more years; and (3) has remained at the same English language proficiency level for two or more consecutive prior years, or has regressed to a lower English language proficiency level, as determined by the English language development test; and (4)For students in grades six through
nine, inclusive, has scored at the “Standard Not Met” level on the prior year administration of the CAASPP ELA.
An English learner (EL) student (1) is enrolled in grades 3-12, (2) has been enrolled in a (3) has scored at the intermediate English language development (4) For students in grades or fifth year at the “Standard administration of the All English learners continue to receive English language
development and content instruction level of English proficiency and support any language needs they may have for full participation Additionally, LTELs are monitored for specific language needs and may be candidates Development (AALD) course offered at middle and high school settings.
This course is designed career ready by specifically targeting their unique linguistic and academic needs.  Please counselor regarding this course option and other available supports (i.e.  counseling and core.
Parents/guardians may choose a language acquisition program that best suits their child.
Schools in which the parents or legal guardians of 30 pupils or more per school or the parents or legal guardians of 20 pupils or more in any grade request a language acquisition program that is designed to provide language instruction shall be required to offer such a program to the extent
possible.
(20 U.S.C.  Section 6312[e][3][A][viii][III]); EC Section 310[a]) We are required to provide a Structured English Immersion (SEI) program option.  If you choose this option, your child will be placed in a classroom that uses mostly English for instruction.
Parents/guardians may provide input regarding language acquisition programs during the development of the Local Control Accountability Plan.
(EC Section 52062) If interested in a different program from those listed above, please contact the English Learner Support Services Department at (951) 509-5094 to ask about the process.
Parents of English learners have a right to decline or opt their children out of the school district’s language acquisition program or opt out of particular English learner service(s) within a language acquisition program.
(20 U.S.C Section 6312[e][3][A][viii]) However, school districts remain obligated to provide the student meaningful instruction until the student exits the program, inform the parent when progress is not made, and offer the parent programs and services to consider at that time.
(5 California Code of Regulations a, Section 11302).
Patients who reported any cancer diagnosis, physician-administered chemotherapy, or radiation therapy treatment in the 12 months preceding the date of diagnosis were removed from the analysis.
Codes used to identify radiation therapy and physician-administered chemotherapy can be found in the Appendix.  Patients identified as having lung, colorectal, or breast cancer in 2011 are included in the study.  Males with breast cancer were excluded.
Some patients were identified as having multiple cancers.  These patients were assigned according to the following hierarchy:.
Patients were followed from 2010 through 2014 or until their departure from the data, whichever occurred first.  Patients were followed for months of coverage under a COBRA or disabled status reported under the same membership ID.
The data does not include a reason for disenrollment; patients could leave because of death, loss of subscriber’s employment, change of plan (including entering Medicare), turning age 65, or long-term disability.
While many patients in the study were protected by OOP maximum features embedded in their insurance, for 2011-2013, we capped annual OOP costs at a maximum comparable to that set by the Affordable Care Act for 2014, when the OOP maximum first became mandatory.
The peer-reviewed protocol will represent the agreed plan for the Continuous Update on breast cancer survivors. Should departure from the agreed plan be considered necessary at a later stage, this must be agreed by the WCRF/AICR Secretariat and the reasons documented.
Autorizo a Bradesco Vida e Previdência e/ou Bradesco Seguros a creditar o(s) valor(es) referentes ao(s) Seguro(s) e/ ou Plano(s) de Previdência(s) em conta bancária abaixo indicada, de minha titularidade, para os quais, em sendo pago, dou plena, rasa, irrevogável e irretratável quitação.
Comprometo-me neste ato pela exatidão dos dados fornecidos e assumo integralmente a responsabilidade perante essa seguradora e/ou terceiros, por quaisquer prejuízos advindos de informações incorretas a esses dados.
Assumo igualmente neste ato o compromisso de comunicar a essa seguradora por escrito e de imediato, qualquer alteração cadastral na referida conta bancária que impossibilite o cumprimento tempestivo da obrigação do depósito por parte dessa seguradora.
Reconheço que o preenchimento deste formulário e a autorização de depósito ora reconhecido, bem como a adoção de demais providências por ventura necessária ao eventual recebimento pleiteado, não implica em prévio reconhecimento de cobertura do sinistro e/ou beneficio por parte da Bradesco Vida e
Previdência S.A.
e/ou Bradesco Seguros e não obriga, automaticamente, a seguradora a efetuar o depósito ora autorizado.
1 - De acordo com o art 4º da Circular nº 445, de 02 de julho de 2012, consideram-se pessoas politicamente expostas os agentes públicos que desempenham ou tenham desempenhado, nos últimos 5 (cinco) anos anteriores, no Brasil ou um países, territórios e dependências estrangeiras, cargos, empregos ou
funções públicas relevantes, assim como seus representantes, familiares e outras pessoas de seu relacionamento próximo.
I - Os detentores de mandatos eletivos dos Poderes Executivo e Legislativo da União;.
III - Os membros do Conselho Nacional de Justiça, do Supremo Tribunal Federal e dos Tribunais Superiores; IV - Os membros do Conselho Nacional do Ministério Público, o Procurador-Geral da República, o Vice-Procurador-Geral da República, o Procurador-Geral do Trabalho, o Procurador-Geral da Justiça
Militar, os Subprocuradores-Gerais da República e os Procuradores-Gerais de Justiça dos Estados e do Distrito Federal; V - os membros do Tribunal de Contas da União e o Procurador-Geral do Ministério Público junto ao Tribunal de Contas da União;.
VI - Os governadores de Estado e do Distrito Federal, os presidentes de Tribunal de Justiça, de Assembleia Legislativa e de Câmara Distrital, e os presidentes de Tribunal e de Conselho de Contas de Estado, de Municípios e do Distrito Federal;
VII - Os prefeitos e presidentes de Câmara Municipal das capitais de Estado.
2 - Pessoas politicamente expostas estrangeiras, são consideradas aquela que exercem ou exerceram importantes funções públicas em um país estrangeiro; por exemplo, chefes de Estado e de Governo, políticos de alto nível, altos servidores dos poderes públicos, magistrados ou militares de alto nível,
dirigentes de empresas públicas ou dirigentes de partidos políticos.
• All full- and part-time students, whether living on campus, or off campus must register their vehicle with the college within 24 hours of their arrival to Luther.  • The college vehicle registration fee is $220.00 per academic year for students living on campus, and $190.00 for commuters.
Temporary parking permits are available for $2.00 per day.  Limited “Reduced lot” permits are available for $120.00, inquire at the Welcome/Information Center in the Union; some restrictions apply.
• A student parking sticker entitles a registered vehicle to be parked in a designated student or general parking area, according to permit, if and when there is a parking space available; it does not guarantee a parking space.
I agree to abide by all rules and regulations regarding the privilege of having a motor vehicle while in attendance at Luther College.  I understand that this privilege may be revoked if I fail to abide by motor vehicle regulations.
Permits are not transferable and expire in August of the current academic year.  Luther College assumes no responsibility or liability for loss from or damage on any personal motor vehicle while on campus.
The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid is requesting that you verify the last day of attendance or engagement for the student referenced below. According to the Office of Registration & Records, the student has dropped the course after census and is receiving a “W” grade for the course.
Federal regulations require that certain students who do not successfully complete a course (by receiving grades of F, U, W, IN, NR, or LA) be required to prove they began attendance.
Those students must document that they began attendance in their course or be at risk of having to repay unearned funds.
Please indicate the last date of attendance/engagement in your course.
If you do not have attendance records, please provide the last day of participation based on the student’s engagement in your course (turning in homework, taking a quiz, etc.) If you taught your course via distance education, please provide the last date where you can best determine the student’s
engagement or participation in the course subject matter.
Log in dates are not sufficient documentation of participation.  Your immediate attention to this request will be greatly appreciated.  If necessary, the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid will contact you to verify the accuracy of this document.
Faculty/instructors with questions may contact Jamie Pendergrass (jfpender@ncsu.edu) with questions or concerns.
4.  Forman DE., Rich MW., Alexander KP., Susane Z., Maurer MS., et al.  Cardiac Care for Older Adults: Time for a New Paradigm.  J Am Coll Cardiol 2011; 57: 1801-1810.  5.  Zoccali C (2002) Cardiorenal risk as a new frontier of nephrology: research needs and areas for intervention.
Nephrolo Dial Transplant 2002; 17: 50-54.  6.  Shelburne N., Adhikari B., Brell J., Davis M., Desvigne-Nickens P., et al.  Cancer treatment-related cardiotoxicity: current state of knowledge and future research priorities.  J Nat Cancer Inst 2014:106.  7.
Plana JC., Galderisi M., Barac A., Ewer MS., Ky B., et al.  Expert consensus for multimodality imaging evaluation of adult patients during and after cancer therapy: a report from the American Society of Echocardiography and the European Association of Cardiovascular Imaging.
J Am Soc Echocardiography 2014; 27: 911-939.  8.  Lipshultz SE., Adams MJ., Colan SD., Constine LS., Herman EH., et al.
Long-term cardiovascular toxicity in children, adolescents, and young adults who receive cancer therapy: pathophysiology, course, monitoring, management, prevention, and research directions: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association.  Circulation 2013; 128: 1927-1995.  9.
Lancellotti P., Nkomo VT., Badano LP., Bergler J., Bogaert J., et al.  Expert consensus for multi-modality imaging evaluation of cardiovascular complications of radiotherapy in adults: a report from the European Association of Cardiovascular Imaging and the American Society of Echocardiography.
J Am Soc Echocardiography 2013; 26:1013-1032.
This information is being distributed to you for personal reference.  This information is intended to serve only as a general reference resource and is not intended to address every aspect of a clinical situation.
Physicians and patients should not rely on this information in making health care decisions.  Physicians and patients must exercise their independent clinical discretion and judgment in determining care.
Each benefit plan contains its own specific CD Provisions for coverage, limitations, and exclusions as stated in the Member’s Evidence of Coverage (EOC)/Summary of Benefits (SB).  If there is a discrepancy between this policy and the member’s EOC/SB, the member’s EOC/SB provision will govern.
The information contained in this document is believed to be current as of the date noted.
The benefit information in this Coverage Summary is based on existing national coverage policy, however, Local Coverage Determinations (LCDs) may exist and compliance with these policies is required where applicable.
There are instances where this document may direct readers to a UnitedHealthcare Commercial Medical Policy, Medical Benefit Drug Policy, and/or Coverage Determination Guideline (CDG).
In the absence of a Medicare National Coverage Determination (NCD), Local Coverage Determination (LCD), or other Medicare coverage guidance, CMS allows a Medicare Advantage Organization (MAO) to create its own coverage determinations, using objective evidence-based rationale relying on authoritative
evidence (Medicare IOM Pub.
No.  100-16, Ch.  4, §90.5).
I certify that I have thoughtfully calculated the amount requested above to meet dollar amount requested is influenced by the needs of my individual household available to me.
I understand that the additional money I am requesting may I understand that the Financial Aid Office will research the most favorable fundi is influenced by the financial need, presence of parent information, and the date Student Aid Report (SAR).
I understand that in most cases, I will be awarded dollar amount requested above, to be disbursed equally over all remaining sem am awarded funding other than Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, I understand that award letter via U.S.  Mail, and that said funding will not be processed until I ha.
somnolence as a side effect is reproducible in susceptible individuals (White and Rumbold 1988).  Sedation is a com- mon side effect of the traditional antipsychotics, with chlorpromazine and thioridazine somewhat more sedating than haloperidol.
Clinical studies have shown a high inci- dence of persistent sedation with clozapine (46%) with less frequent reports of sedation with risperidone, olanzapine, sertindole and quetiapine (Monti et al.  2016).
The sed- ation associated with these agents is most likely associated with their known effects on histaminic receptors.  Doxepin, a sedating psychotropic agent with pro- nounced histamine (H-1) receptor antagonism exerts at least part of its effects by antagonizing orexin (Krystal et al.  2013).
Suvorexant, is an orexin antagonist designed to lower waking arousal (Norman and Anderson 2016).  Currently, it is being heavily marketed as a hypnotic (Rhyne and Anderson 2015).
As based on performance and driving tests, this agent is known to produce a dose-related next day increase in somnolence for all age groupings tested (Farkus 2013).  Sedative drug effects on daytime sleepiness are summarized in Table 4.
Clinically these agents are sometimes used off-label for their sedative effects.  Among antihypertensives in wide use, the complaints of tiredness, fatigue and daytime sleepiness are commonly associated with drugs having antagonistic effects at the norepinephrine neuroreceptor (Dimsdale 1992).
The complaints of tiredness, fatigue and daytime sleepiness (2–4.3%) associated with beta-blocker use may occur secondary to disturbed sleep or direct action of the drug.  Beta-blocking drugs with vasodilating properties (e.g.
carvedilol, labetalol) are also associated with reported fatigue and somnolence (3–11%).  Sedation is among the most common side ef- fects reported for the alpha-2 agonists clonidine and methyldopa (30–75%) (AHFS 2003).  Alpha-1 antagonists (e.g.
terazosin, prazosin) are sometimes associated with transient sedation.  Prazosin, a norepinephine antagonist, has demonstrated value in treating insomnia associated with PTSD nightmares (Raskind et al.  2003).
Clonidine is sometimes utilized to treat the agitation and insomnia that result from using amphetamines to treat AD/HD in pediatric patients (Ming et al.  2011).
that likely affects anxiety/mood symptoms via the M2 and/or M1 receptors of the CNS [19].  Scopolamine was known over a century ago to produce a calming effect in psychiatric patients [20], although this property is not well known today among medical providers.
There is clinical evidence that other antimuscarinic agents (e.g., promethazine), can also provide some anxiolytic benefit [6].
Beta blockers and antimuscarinic agents are included in the PanX® combinations not only for pharmacologic targeting of the sympathetic beta-1 and parasympathetic M2/M1 receptors, but also in view of historic safety.
Both classes of drugs have been used in millions of patients over five decades and are known to be safe.  Neither class is addictive.
In addition, the high prevalence of use strongly suggests that both classes of medicines have been coincidentally and/or concurrently used in the same patient(s) as separate prescriptions and/or OTC drugs, for instance a prescription beta blocker for hypertension and a prescription or OTC
antimuscarinic agent for motion sickness, nausea, or vomiting.
Even with high coincident and/or concurrent use, there is no evidence in the population of producing side effects or drug-drug interactions that extend beyond those inherent within either of the monotherapies.
Prior to this open label study, case series resulting from physician- sponsored studies of compounded atenolol - scopolamine provided initial evidence of effectiveness in the PRN treatment of anxiety.
Three patients diagnosed with PTSD, who experienced acute anxiety episodes, were treated effectively by a psychiatrist [7-9].  In addition, three patients with acute anxiety symptoms under the care of pain management physicians were treated successfully [10].
In the present physician-sponsored open label study we document a trial of a compounded combination drug regarding anxiolytic efficacy and with no side effects in eight adult patients.
The drug combo produced a fast-acting and beneficial calming effect in 6 of 8 patients, who were deemed as responders.  None of the patients described any side effects, and there was no evidence of impairment of cognition.
One can reasonably assert that this beneficial anxiolytic effect might have been enhanced even further under three study design conditions.
First, if the inclusion criteria had required each patient to have a high anxiety score prior to the procedure, for instance a minimum of 7 points (with 10 as the maximum), there would have been a greater potential for a difference pre-treatment vs.  during the procedure.
The six responders had a baseline average of 6.3 points, so there was room for improvement.  Of the six responders, two subjects had low baseline anxiety scores (i.e., patient F at 4 points and patient I at 2 points).
A higher baseline inclusion parameter could have increased the differential prior to vs.  during the EMG procedure.  Second, there might not have been a sufficiently long waiting period between the drug administration and the procedure.
One can reasonably assert that if the time interval between dosing and the procedure was increased to a minimum of 30 minutes or more (from the 10 – 20 minutes), the percentage of responders and the magnitude of the response could have been greater.
However, it should be noted that often in a clinic time-is-of-the-essence between the patient’s initial assessment by the medical provider and the subsequent medical procedure.
Some medical providers are willing to pre-treat an anxious patient, typically with an oral benzodiazepine either swallowed intact or pre-dissolved in water, and then have him/her wait (e.g., 30 + min.) for an anxiolytic effect to be acknowledged by the patient.
But, some physicians and dentists might be under time constraints or might not be willing to oblige the patient this waiting period.
This would not be an obstacle if either the drug has a rapid onset of effect or the patient were to pre-treat themselves immediately prior to arrival at the physician’s office, for instance 30-60 minutes in advance.
Even under the conditions of this study that the authors consider might have been sub-optimal, this drug combo delivered by the oral mucosal route provided a rapid onset effect as a PRN medication.
This anxiolytic benefit may be useful in treating anticipatory anxiety either in-office or prior to arrival.  There is a third limitation to this study to consider.  The compounded medicine contained 25 mg of atenolol and 0.2 mg of scopolamine HBr.
My office has “responsibility for supervising charitable trusts in California, for ensuring compliance with trusts and articles of incorporation, and for protection of assets held by charitable trusts and public benefit corporations…” (Gov.
Code, § 12598.) My office is tasked with the authority to “investigate transactions and relationships of corporations and trustees…for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not the purposes of the corporation or trust are being carried out in accordance with the terms and provisions of the articles
of incorporation or other instrument.” (Gov.
Code, § 12588).  To that end, my office conducted an investigation of ICANN and its role in approving the transfer of the .ORG Registry Agreement from the Public Interest Registry (“PIR”) (the supporting organization to the Internet Society (“ISOC”)) to Ethos Capital.
A key component of our review begins with ICANN’s articles of incorporation which states as follows:.
[ICANN] is not organized for the private gain of any person… recogni[zing] the fact that the Internet is an international network of networks, owned by no single nation, individual or organization” and as such, ICANN will “pursue the charitable and public purposes of lessening the burdens of
government and.
O Sr (a) XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX está sendo consultado (a) no sentido de autorizar a utilização de dados clínicos, laboratoriais, imagens fotográficas e lâminas histológicas de seu caso clínico que se encontram em sua ficha de prontuário (médico, odontológico, fisioterapêutico, de enfermagem) para
finalidades científicas (apresentação em congressos ou publicação do caso em revista científica como) “Relato de caso”.
Nosso objetivo será o de discutir as características de sua doença em meio científico, em função das particularidades de apresentação de sua doença, metodologia de diagnóstico e tratamento utilizado.  Inserir os riscos e benefícios.
A sua autorização é voluntária e a recusa em autorizar não acarretará qualquer penalidade ou modificação na forma em que é atendida pelos médicos assistentes e pesquisadores.  Os pesquisadores irão tratar a sua identidade com padrões profissionais de sigilo.
O relato do caso estará à sua disposição quando finalizado.  Seu nome ou o material que indique sua participação não será liberado sem a sua permissão.  A Sra.  não será identificada em nenhuma publicação.
Este termo de consentimento encontra-se impresso em duas vias, sendo que uma cópia será arquivada pelo pesquisador responsável, e a outra será fornecida à Sra.
verdadeiras e de minha inteira responsabilidade e que nada omiti em relação ao meu estado de saúde, e de meu cônjuge, tendo respondido de próprio punho ao questionário de saúde.
Estou ciente que perderei o direito às coberturas contratadas, bem como aos prêmios pagos, se vier a ser constatada em qualquer época, falsidade ou omissão, quanto ao meu real estado de saúde, bem como de meu cônjuge segurado.
Declaro que recebi e aceito os termos das Condições Gerais e Especiais do Seguro e a segunda via desta proposta de adesão, tomei conhecimento prévio e expresso conhecimento das suas disposições, concordando com seus termos.
A qualquer momento, mediante solicitação ao MBM, poderei alterar meus beneficiários.  Assim com base nas declarações aqui prestadas, solicito que seja aceita minha adesão.
a)O registro deste plano na SUSEP não implica, por parte da Autarquia, incentivo ou recomendação a sua comercialização.  b)O segurado poderá consultar a situação cadastral de seu corretor de seguros, no site www.susep.gov.br, por meio do número de seu registro na SUSEP, nome completo, CNPJ ou CPF.
c)No caso de contratação de seguro, este é por prazo de vigência determinado, tendo a Seguradora a faculdade de não renovar a Apólice na data de vencimento, sem devolução dos prêmios pagos nos termos da Apólice.  d)A aceitação do seguro estará sujeita à análise do risco.
e)As condições Gerais, Especiais e Regulamentos encontram-se disponíveis no site www.mbmseguros.com.br.
Nome do Corretor: Becker Corretora de Seguros Ltda.
Declaro para os devidos fins que foram conferidos e estão corretos os dados constantes nesta proposta de adesão com os registros no documento de identificação e no cadastro da ASSUFMS, assim como os demais dados da contratação que correspondem às normas, tabelas e demais condições estabelecidas pela
MBM Seguradora S.A.
responsabilizando- me por eventual indenização a MBM Seguradora S.A.
Declaro, ainda, que o preenchimento do questionário de saúde, foi integralmente realizado pelo titular da proposta de adesão, constituindo-se declaração de próprio punho, responsabilizando-me por eventual indenização ao MBM na hipótese de condenação da mesma decorrente do preenchimento incorreto da
presente proposta de adesão.
Figure 1.  Citation frequency of open access (OA) and subscription access (Sub) articles 36 mo after publication.  Interpretive notes: boxes represent the interquartile range (25th to 75th percentile) and contain the median value (horizontal line) and average value (horizontal dash).
Whis- kers extend 1.5(cid:6) the length of the interquartile range.  Category notes: medical includes 5 journals published by the American Heart Association plus Neuro-Oncology, published by Duke University Press.
Life sciences includes The FASEB Journal, Genetics, and 11 journals published by the American Physiological Society.  Multidisciplinary sciences includes Sci- ence Magazine.  Social sciences includes 10 journals published by Sage Publications.
Humanities includes 6 journals pub- lished by Duke University Press.  See Table 1 for treatment allocation.
Free access to scientific articles increases readership (as measured by article downloads) and reaches a broader audience (as measured by unique IP addresses) but has no effect on article citations within the first 3 yr after publication.
These results are consistent with earlier trial reports on the physiology literature (14, 15) and suggest that these claims are generalizable across the scientific, social sciences, and humanities literatures.
The increase in full-text downloads for open access articles during their first year after publication suggests that the primary benefit to the nonsubscriber commu- nity is in browsing, as opposed to printing or saving, which would have been indicated by a commensurate increase in PDF downloads.
The decrease in abstract views suggests a reader preference for the full docu- ment when available.
Prior studies comparing the citation impact of open access articles to subscription access articles are based on unobtrusive observational methods and may suffer from the failure to adequately control for confounding variables (8, 13).
While some studies attempt to control statistically for differences in article characteristics,.
such as article type, discipline, and funding source, (9), for example, none were able to control for abstract qualities such as relevance, novelty, and importance to a field of study, variables that are unobservable to the researcher.
In addition, an author’s willingness and ability to pay open access publishing fees, some amounting to several thousands of dollars, may make simple performance comparisons with subscription- access articles highly problematic (12).
By randomly altering access status in an experimental trial, we are able to isolate and measure the effects of access on readership and citations independently of other con- founding variables.
Article downloads and citations measure two different dimensions of scientific knowledge transfer.  The first measures general interest in a particular new piece of knowledge; the second measures the incorporation of that knowledge into a new document.
Most article downloads take place within the first few months after publication (17, 18), suggesting that the primary func- tion of an article is to keep researchers abreast on the latest findings within a field and secondly to serve as a source document for future citation.
Article downloads retrieved shortly after publication have been shown to predict future citations, although their strength of prediction is relatively low (17, 19, 20).  A citation, on the other hand, measures a different set of intentions from a much smaller group of partic- ipants.
To generate new scientific knowledge, in most cases, one must have access to equipment, materials and facilities, technicians, and the infrastructure neces- sary to support and coordinate them all (21).
Authors must be able to analyze their results, capable of pre- senting their findings, and able to communicate them clearly and coherently.  Once submitted, scientific man- uscripts must make it through peer-review and be published in an indexed journal in order to be visible.
Logistic regression controls for individual journal and journal categoryeffects.OA,openaccess;sub,subscription.Medicalincludes 5 journals published by the American Heart Association plus Neuro- Oncology, published by Duke University Press.
Life sciences includes The FASEB Journal, Genetics, and 11 journals published by the Ameri- can Physiological Society.  Multidisciplinary sciences includes Science Magazine.  Social sciences includes 10 journals published by Sage Publications.
Humanities includes 6 journals published by Duke University Press.  See Table 1 for treatment allocation.
OBS 1.: O reembolso será creditado somente na conta corrente do titular. Caso o mesmo não possua conta bancária, o reembolso será realizado através de Ordem de Pagamento no Banco do Brasil S.A . ( Ordem de pagamento com autorização do gerente financeiro)
B Número do CPF ou CNPJ (para pessoa jurídica, é indispensável a apresentação da nota fiscal e a mesma deverá OBRIGATORIAMENTE, ter o carimbo da instituição com CNPJ e assinatura). O recibo é válido apenas para os atendimentos de pessoa física.
NOTE: Failure to provide the requested information may result in USCIS and your financial institution not accepting the payment.  USCIS cannot process credit card payments without an authorized signature.  NOTE: Form G-1450 may only be used with a form being submitted to a USCIS Lockbox.
Do not submit this form to a USCIS Field Office.  They will not accept it.
By completing this transaction, you agree that you have paid for a government service and that the filing fee, biometric services fee and all related financial transactions are final and not refundable, regardless of any action USCIS takes on an application, petition or request.
You must submit all fees in the exact amounts.
In cavity wall construction, the prescribed air space acts as an insulating layer in addition to the masonry units.  Thermal performance of the system can be further enhanced by placing insulation materials in the cavity.
Insulation materials used in brick masonry cavity walls include inorganic cellular materials such as perlite and vermiculite, and organic cellular materials such as polystyrene, polyurethane, polyisocyanurate and foams.
These insulation types are manufactured in the form of rigid boards, granular fills and foams.  Each of these types, if properly used, will result in a more thermally efficient wall system.
Although the most important characteristic for insulation is its thermal resistance, other properties should be considered including water absorption, combustibility, density, insect resistance and ease of installation.
The following criteria can be used for the selection of insulation materials for brick masonry cavity walls:.
In cavity wall construction, the prescribed air space acts as an insulating layer in addition to the masonry units.  Thermal performance of the system can be further enhanced by placing insulation materials in the cavity.
Insulation materials used in brick masonry cavity walls include inorganic cellular materials such as perlite and vermiculite, and organic cellular materials such as polystyrene, polyurethane, polyisocyanurate and foams.
These insulation types are manufactured in the form of rigid boards, granular fills and foams.  Each of these types, if properly used, will result in a more thermally efficient wall system.
Although the most important characteristic for insulation is its thermal resistance, other properties should be considered including water absorption, combustibility, density, insect resistance and ease of installation.
The following criteria can be used for the selection of insulation materials for brick masonry cavity walls:.
2.Thermal insulating efficiency must not be impaired nor degrade over time due to retained moisture from any source, i.e., wind-driven rain or vapor condensation.
3.Insulating materials must be long lasting, resisting rot due to moisture or dryness, offering no food value to vermin and meeting the building code requirements for flame resistance.
4.Granular fill materials must be capable of supporting their own weight without settlement to assure that no portion of the wall is without insulation and allow moisture to drain from the cavity.
5.Foam insulation materials must not shrink with age to assure that no portion of the wall is without insulation and that moisture does not have a path to migrate to the interior wythe.
6.Rigid boards must be firmly attached to the backing so as not to become dislodged in the cavity and allow air or water movement around the insulation.
Properties of insulation materials vary widely.  Table 3 shows various properties of insulation materials used in brick masonry cavity walls.  The thermal conductivity (k) and thermal resistance (R) provide a means of comparing the insulating properties of insulation materials.
These are determined in accordance with ASTM C 177 Test Method for Steady-State Heat Flux Measurements and Thermal Transmission Properties by Means of the Guarded-Hot-Plate Apparatus measured at various temperatures.
Due to the large number of types of insulation, and even larger number of manufacturers, Table 3 lists only a few representative values of physical properties.  For some materials, an aged or stabilized value is given.
In all cases, the aged or stabilized value is the one that should be used in design.  Individual manufacturers should be consulted for design values and other properties of their specific materials and their applications.
Conforme §4º, art.  6º do Decreto 916, de 27 de fevereiro de 2019, o requerimento deverá ser apresentado até o dia 28/06/2019.  DADOS DO REQUERENTE: é a pessoa, física ou jurídica, que tenha interesse na Remissão de crédito tributário, conforme inciso VII do art.
38.F do Código Tributário do Município de Contagem, ou o representante legal, formalmente constituído.  CPF: Informe o número do Cadastro de Pessoa Física.  ENDEREÇO: Informe os dados do endereço completo do Requerente que será utilizado para envio de comunicados, notificações e/ou decisões.
TELEFONE: Informe ao menos um número de telefone para contato, preferencialmente fixo.  EMAIL: Informe o endereço para correspondência eletrônica.  COMUNICADOS POR EMAIL.  Marque a opção correspondente.  O REQUERENTE É O PORTADOR DA PATOLOGIA?: Marque a opção correspondente.
DADOS DO PORTADOR DA PATOLOGIA (caso não seja o requerente): preencher este campo no caso do portador da patologia ser cônjuge ou filho(a) do proprietário do imóvel.  GRAU DE PARENTESCO: Marque a opção correspondente.
PATOLOGIA INCAPACITANTE DE NATUREZA GRAVE, CRÔNICA OU TERMINAL: Marque a opção correspondente.  ÍNDICE CADASTRAL: Informe o número do índice cadastral (inscrição) do imóvel.  DADOS DO IMÓVEL: Preencha campos para identificação precisa do imóvel.
LOTE/QUADRA/BAIRRO: Conforme dados de Cartório de Registro de Imóveis ou do Comprovante de Titularidade.  MATRÍCULA CRI: Número da matrícula do registro do imóvel.
SOLICITAÇÃO TERMO DE RESPONSABILIDADE: Leia atentamente o termo de responsabilidade e assinale a opção que formaliza a solicitação de Remissão dos créditos tributários.  Datar e assinar.
has been diagnosed with COVID‐19.  Anyone identified as a close contact of the diagnosed individual will receive a separate letter detailing their next steps.  Everyone in the class is not a close contact and subject to quarantine.
The class will remain open unless another person in the classroom is diagnosed with COVID‐19 and public health identifies the school as the source of that person’s infection.
Childcare center/school will remain open based upon the quarantine of all known close contacts and appropriate building cleaning/disinfection being completed.
While many of these symptoms can be seen with other conditions such as allergies, we ask that you seek medical evaluation if you identify any of these symptoms.  Loss of taste or smell is very specific to COVID‐19 and may be described as food tasting bland, rather than not being able to taste.
If your child develops any of these symptoms, please notify your child’s school, contact your child’s doctor for evaluation/testing, and keep your child home from school.
If your child develops symptoms and you seek medical evaluation and/or testing, you can talk with your doctor about getting your child tested based on the potential exposure in the classroom. If you do not have a provider, you can go to this website for current testing options and locations:
Based on this information, you may choose to keep your child home out of an abundance of caution. If you choose to do so, please contact at your school so that they can help manage the transition to online instruction for your child.
Eu, sócio-titular da , ambos acima qualificados, autorizo a pessoa igualmente qualificada a solicitar à Agência da Receita Estadual - ARE, antes identificada, o cadastramento ou alteração cadastral da referida empresa e a receber extratos quanto à regularidade do seu estabelecimento e dos
respectivos sócios e quanto à posi de débito de processo regular ou pendente, relatório dos documentos de informações econômico-fiscais omissos, com erros ou regulares, e informações cadastrais, entre outros documentos, respondendo solidariamente pelo inteiro teor e pela autenticidade da
documentação apresentada perante a Secretaria da Fazenda.
empresa ção.
a) The regulation gives data subjects the right not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing, including profiling, where there is a legal or similarly significant effect on the person (the regulation prohibits automated processing where there is no meaningful human
involvement in the decision and where the decision either impacts one’s legal rights, or the decision has the potential to significantly influence the circumstances, behavior, or choices of the individuals concerned).
b) Other considerations: i) Research affecting the healthcare a person receives, where there is no human involvement in the decision, would be considered covered under the regulation (i.e., assigning trial subjects to receive an intervention or placebo, based solely on the individual’s personal
data, i.e., test results).
Controllers who do not need to know identity of data subject are not required to learn identity to comply with exercise of rights of access, rectification, erasure, restriction of processing, or portability (often the case for research entities that hold only pseudonymised data).
As you know if you ever checked into a hotel or rented a car, the first thing you are asked for is a credit card, which is imprinted and later used to pay your bill.  This is an advantage for both you and the hotel or car rental company since it makes checkout easier, faster and more efficient.
CCSD would like to make it simple for you to pay any services that are your responsibility after your insurance company processes your claim.
We simply maintain your Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, Flex plan or checking account information on file to satisfy any patient responsibilities such as deductibles, co-insurance or other balances.
If you are not aware of your insurance benefits, including your deductible and co-insurance amounts, please contact your carrier.  If you have a high deductible, it is recommended that you provide a credit card as opposed to a debit card or check.
We will do everything possible to maximize your insurance benefits.
This policy will be advantageous to you since you will no longer have to write and mail us a check for your balances.  This also will have a positive effect on the environment.
This payment process will not compromise your ability to dispute a charge or question your insurance company’s determination of payment.
As we continue to strive to protect the security of your personal information, your credit card information is encrypted to CCSD employees.
Your credit card information is stored in a high-security system that goes beyond Payment Cared Industry (PCI) compliance using Point-to-Point Encryption (P2PE) which involves a combination of secure devices, applications, and processes that encrypts the card data from the first interaction at the
point of sale up until the data reaches the secure payment processing environment.
I authorize Chicago Cosmetic Surgery and Dermatology, LLC (CCSD) to securely maintain my credit card account information and to charge my account in full for any outstanding balances after my insurance carrier has processed my claim(s).
I agree to inform CCSD of any changes regarding my credit card account number and/or expiration date.  This authorization will remain in effect until revoking in writing by the cardholder which will apply to future dates of service only.  There will be at $35.00 fee for non-sufficient funds.
A systolic pressure of 130 to 139 or a diastolic pressure of 85 to 89 should be watched carefully. Let your doctor know if your blood pressure is equal to or more than 140 over 90. When should you call your doctor?
De acordo com o Item 3.1 do Edital de Processo Seletivo 002/2014 da Prefeitura Municipal de Tigrinhos (SC), embasado no art.
37, VIII da Constituição Federal e Lei n.° 7.853 de 24 de outubro de 1989, venho requerer reserva de vaga a candidato portador de deficiência, apresentando laudo médico com CID em anexo, conforme deficiência abaixo:.
Second, deepening of institutional structure should be an ongoing project, particularly as it relates to bioethical codes (Baker, 2015; Tartzian et al., 2015), as well as proactive institutional engage- ment to improve responsiveness (Fenton et al., 2015).
Institutional engagement with the future of the bioethics field is required to steward professionalism (White et al., 2014) and populate the health professions with those trained in bioethics, given radical changes in biomedical research and practice to come (Grady, 2013).
This is particularly important given the rise of Big Data, as well as new biomedical methodologies such as crowdsourcing applied to biomedical research (Callaghan, 2014a; 2014b).
Third, explicit engagement with issues relating to channels of communication around biotech de- velopments is needed, in order to ensure narratives are not ‘captured’ by those with agendas (O’Keefe et al., 2015) and validity of public knowledge is ensured through development of ap- propriate
biomedicine vocabularies.
These practical initiatives capture the spirit of citizen science theory (Bonney et al., 2009) in terms of increasing responsiveness of populations to issues which affect them, or democratisation of both scientific discovery and its scrutiny.
Theory related to wicked problems, or problems at the nexus of human values and uncertainty (Rittel & Webber, 1973), together with citizen science theory may help bioethicists negotiate changes to come in the biomedical research landscape.
Fourth, theory building requires synthesis of different literatures which advance the same goal, namely, to empower the crowd to engage with important scientific issues such as genetic engi- neering, human tissue market development, and other important biomedical research outcomes.
This entails a need to build synergies between citizen science theory and other bodies of theory such as informing science, which offer an emergent body of research specifically focused on in- forming stakeholders.
A: Under the order, a business cannot require workers to leave their homes unless the workers are “necessary to sustain or protect life or to conduct minimum basic operations.” Workers considered necessary to sustain or protect life are those who meet the definition of “critical infrastructure
workers” provided in sections 8 and 9 of the order.
Only workers properly designated for these purposes can be on- site.  All other in-person business operations must be suspended.
In determining whether certain in-person operations are permitted under the order, businesses that offer goods and services must bear in mind that, under the order, individuals are only allowed to leave their homes to secure necessary services or supplies, such as food, medication, and products
necessary to maintain the safety, sanitation, and basic operation of their residences.
Businesses must tailor their in-person provision of goods and services accordingly.
The order does not prohibit or suspend work that can be performed remotely. All work under the order must be performed remotely to the greatest extent possible, and any in-person work must be done in accordance with the mitigation measures required under section 5 of the order.
In cooperation with the Mason County Prosecutor, we request that you take immediate action to ensure that your organization is only open to service critical infrastructure needs and no employees are on site to service non-critical infrastructure needs such as filing, answering phones, or other
clerical duties.
Any employees that are working on-site must maintain social distancing in compliance with the Governor’s Order.  Failure to voluntarily comply with this request will result in these complaints being forwarded to local law enforcement agencies for enforcement action.
We appreciate your prompt attention to this matter.
Secretaria de Educação Profissi Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia do Rio Grande do Sul Ministério da Educação Secretaria de Educação Profissional e Tecnológica Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia do Rio Grande do Sul Campus Viamão Instituto Federal de Educação,
Ciência e Tecnologia do Rio Grande do Sul.
Fig.  1.1: Year-on-year growth rates of expenditures on cancer medicines and health care ....................................................  3 Fig.
1.2: Comparison of expenditures on cancer medicines and health based on per-capita expenditures, by (a) incident cases and (b) prevalent cases......................................................................................................................................4 Fig.
1.3: Points along the value chain and product life-cycles for price setting and management ........................................  6 Fig.  3.1: Cost structure of pharmaceutical and life science industry, by company type and year .......................................  20 Fig.
3.2: Timeline of price planning activities for palbociclib ..........................................................................................................  22 Fig.
3.3: Timeline of price planning activities for sofosbuvir ...........................................................................................................  23 Fig.
3.4: Threshold analysis of revenue return, by R&D expenses and years since product launch ...................................  25 Fig.  3.5: Cumulative sales incomes of cancer medicines in 2017 US dollars, by molecule ....................................................  26 Fig.
3.6: Distribution of market share by 2017 sales value and Herfindahl-Hirschman Index ...............................................  28 Fig.
3.7: Comparison of factors of profit ................................................................................................................................................  31 Fig.
3.8: Dimensions that may be considered for determining the value of medicines .........................................................  34 Fig.  3.9: External reference pricing, by country and country GDP-per-capita ranking ...........................................................  37 Fig.
3.10: Types of MEA applied for cancer medicines in European countries ..........................................................................  42 Fig.  4.1: Comparative expenditure on cancer medicine in (a) Australia and (b) Norway .......................................................  54 Fig.
4.2: Comparative expenditure on high-cost specialty medicine in the USA......................................................................  55 Fig.  4.3: Median prices of EML cancer medicines, by country income and cancer incidence ..............................................  57 Fig.
4.4: Cumulative percentage change from baseline mean monthly cost in the USA, by year ......................................  58 Fig.  4.5: Costs of cancer medicines (a) without and (b) with adjustment for purchasing power .........................................  60 Fig.
4.6: Cumulative real pharmaceutical price inflation in (a) Australia and US with year 1981 as the baseline year (b) Australia, US and Euro area with year 2000 as the baseline year ..................................................................................  61 Fig.
4.7: Australian Government’s reimbursement for cancer medicines dispensed (2011–2016) ........................................  63 Fig.
4.8: Availability of cancer medicines in national formularies of non-European countries in 2016, by country ranked by GDP per capita in 2016 ..........................................................................................................................................  69 Fig.
4.9: Availability of cancer medicines in national formularies of European countries in 2014, by country ranked by GDP per capita in 2016 ..............................................................................................................................................................
70 Fig.  4.10: Decision outcomes on the coverage of cancer medicines (2002–2014) in 10 European countries or areas .  72.
1.  Describing – by clearly defining what you are talking about, what specifically was involved, where it took place and under what circumstances.  2.  Reflecting – reconsidering a topic by taking into account new information or a new experience, or considering other viewpoints.  3.
Analyzing – examining and then explaining how something is, including comparing and contrasting different elements and understanding relationships to your subject/topic.  4.  Critiquing – identifying and examining weaknesses in arguments, as well as acknowledging its strengths.
It’s important to think of critiquing as ‘neutral’ and not negative.  5.  Reasoning – using methods such as cause and effect to demonstrate logical thinking, as well as presenting evidence that either refutes or proves an argument.
6.  Evaluating – can include commenting on the degrees of success and failure of something, or the value of something The ability to analyze and creatively adapt to new situations is at the heart of critical thinking.
Paul and Elder (2008, 2014b) asserted that critical thinking provides a vehicle for educating the mind.
John Dewey would agree, as from his early work, we have increased our sense of the pragmatic basis of human thought (its instrumental nature), and especially its grounding in actual human purposes, goals, and objectives.
Dewey (1910) also discussed critical thinking in terms of reflective thinking, which is an uneasiness in accepting the status quo and that critical thinking is both an emotional and intellectual component.
Students must, therefore, be taught to examine, poke, question, and reflect on what they have learned.  Scepticism, questioning, and reflection is essential.  Dewey also stated that schools should have an intimate relationship with the community it serves.
From the review of the research concerning critical thinking and what components are considered important in high school education and later a life-long learning skill, the authors developed a 5-step, critical thinking teaching process as outlined in Table 2.
Input from the study’s nine experts who reviewed the model and from suggestions from other model developers, led to the selection of easy to remember letters that describe each step’s process.
By participating in Northside’s Skip-A-Payment program, you request that Northside FCU defer your loan payments as indicated.
You agree and understand that 1) Loans must have originated at least six months prior to the date you choose to skip your payment; 2) Finance charges will continue to accrue at the rate provided in your original loan agreement during and after this time; 3) Deferring your loan payment will result in
you having to pay higher total FINANCE CHARGES than if you made your payment s as originally scheduled; 4) The payment deferral will extend the terms of your loan(s), and you will have to make extra payments after your loan would otherwise be paid off; 5) You will be required to resume your payments
the following month; 6) If you elected GAP, War- ranty Coverage or Life/Disability Insurance, the coverage will not be extended beyond the original maturity date; 7) All deferrals are subject to NFCU approval; 8) If your payment is made through Payroll Deduction, your payment will be deposited into
your NFCU membership savings account.
I hereby authorize All About Trucks to charge the credit card indicated in this authorization form according to the terms outlined here.  This payment authorization is for the goods and or services described in the provided invoice, for the amount indicated on it.
I certify that I am an authorized user of this credit card and that I will not dispute the payment with my credit card company; so long as the transaction corresponds to the terms indicated in this form and the invoice that I received.
1.  Considerando - Ser direito de recusar o atendimento ou procedimentos propostos para meu tratamento de deixar as dependências do hospital, mesmo sabendo das possíveis consequências e riscos de tal atitude.  2.
Considerando - que alta a pedido não constitui ato que tenha sido indicado ou praticado pela equipe médica, mas sim um ato livre e soberano da autonomia do paciente, atendido o disposto no Termo de Responsabilidade.  3.
Considerando – Que o exercício, por parte do paciente, deste seu direito, a partir do momento em que deixar o hospital, isenta o médico e a Instituição da responsabilidade por quaisquer consequências adversas à saúde diretamente relacionadas a esta alta.  4.
Considerando – Que mesmo tendo o médico, com o apoio da equipe multiprofissional, explicado em linguagem acessível ao doente, o diagnóstico, suas condições clínicas, possibilidades terapêuticas e as consequências da interrupção da assistência médica, especificando possíveis riscos e danos.  5.
Considerando – Que a alta a pedido desobriga o Médico de dar continuidade ao tratamento, bem como de emitir receita, solicitação de exames e encaminhamento para outro estabelecimento.  Ainda assim solicito a interrupção do meu tratamento sendo essa atitude uma livre expressão de minha vontade.
Declaro que fui devidamente informado (a) e esclarecido (a) quanto à situação da minha saúde e decido deixar de ser assistido neste hospital, em razão de: _________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ A condição é boa.
*The ratio of the number of subsequent cancers observed among cancer survivors to the number of cancers expected is statistically significant (p<0.05).
Note: Observed-to-expected ratio is the number of cancers that were observed among cancer survivors in the SEER 9 areas, divided by the number of cancers expected in this population, calculated using the population-based age-specific incidence rates in the SEER 9 areas.
A second (or multiple) primary cancer is a new cancer that is biologically distinct from the original cancer.  Whether a cancer is a new primary or a recurrence is important because it deter- mines prognosis and treatment.
The risk of developing a second primary cancer varies by the type of cancer first diagnosed (referred to as the first primary), treatment received, age at diag- nosis, and other factors.  Ratios of the observed-to-expected.
number of cancer cases (O/E) among cancer survivors in popu- lation-based cancer registries are used to describe the risk for a subsequent cancer diagnosis, with the number expected based on cancer occurrence in the general population.
As a whole, can- cer survivors have a small increased risk of additional cancers, although risk is higher for those with a history of childhood can- cer (Figure 15, page 25), as well as for adult survivors of Hodgkin lymphoma and tobacco-related cancers (oral cavity and pharynx, lung and bronchus,
kidney and renal pelvis, esophagus, and urinary bladder) (Figure 16).
For example, female survivors of Hodgkin lymphoma treated with radiation to the chest are at.
I authorize Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey / Program in American Language Studies (Newark Campus), IELTS Test Center US 379, to charge my credit card the amount as indicated above and I agree to be bound by the IELTS refund and cancellation policies as outlined on the ielts.org website
and IELTS application.
I understand that I will be charged the full test fee and will not receive a refund if I cancel my test or request a transfer within five weeks of the test date, unless I provide appropriate medical evidence, within five days of the test date, to support the.
To complete this Employer Notification Form please be sure to include your name and complete mailing information (Mr./Mrs./Dr./etc.) to ensure correct preparation and mailing of the employer notification.
You may request that the notification of your certification be sent to your principal, your supervisor, your company president, the head of your school board, etc.  Personal data submitted with this form is for association use and treated as confidential information.
Please email the completed form to: certification@aafcs.org.
- Fees for full conference and single day registrations will be $25 higher after June 22.  - Registrants who join MRN within the two weeks following the conference may deduct the difference between the member and non-member rate from their dues payment.
- Organizations that register 3 or more individuals may deduct $10 per registration from the total due.  To receive discount, please make copies of this form and submit all registrations together listing payment information on first copy only.
Refunds: All requests must be in writing and received on or prior to June 22.  No refunds will be made after this date.  A cancellation fee of $30 per registration will be deducted for all refunds.
RSVP: Fax or mail this form to: MRN, c/o Mariner Management, PO Box 1640, Columbia, MD 21044 Fax: 301-238-4579.
Applicants for scholarships from the Opportunity Scholarship Program can meet the income requirements for eligibility by demonstrating receipt of SNAP/TANF benefits.  Serving Our Children (SOC) would like your permission to verify your receipt of SNAP/TANF benefits from the District of Columbia.
Once you have completed this form, SOC will submit to the District of Columbia on your behalf.  Confirmation of your benefits will be sent directly to Serving Our Children.
While this release form is designed to assist us with obtaining necessary information, completing this form does not guarantee information will be received by SOC in a complete and timely manner.
Please know, delays occur when requesting information from the District of Columbia and until SOC confirms your benefits with the District of Columbia, you will continue to receive notification that your application is incomplete.
Please understand that you are responsible for submitting required documents to SOC, and it may be necessary for you to follow‐up directly with the District of Columbia to obtain the necessary information, or provide other income documentation to SOC.
The person listed below is applying and/or renewing their D.C.  Opportunity Scholarship application.  In order to prove eligibility, they need to provide their SNAP/TANF benefits income information received from the District of Columbia.
Please verify that the person listed below currently receives SNAP and/or TANF benefits from the District of Columbia:.
I hereby request and authorize the District of Columbia to provide Serving Our Children any and all information regarding benefits I am currently receiving from the District of Columbia, and to permit the examination of, copying and/or reproduction or otherwise, by this organization of all or any
portions desired by them of my file to determine my eligibility for the D.C.
Opportunity Scholarship Program.
By my signature on this document, I hereby authorize AMEDEX Insurance Company (Bermuda) to directly debit the credit card that I have identified above for the payment of insurance premiums for my AMEDEX Insurance Company (Bermuda) life insurance policy, as specifically identified hereinabove.
I understand that, if there are any changes to my AMEDEX Insurance Company (Bermuda) life insurance policy, the amount of the premium may also change from the above-stated amount.
I further understand that a true and correct copy of this Agreement will be forwarded to my credit card company and, by my signature on this agreement, I request and instruct them to allow AMEDEX Insurance Company (Bermuda) to directly debit my credit card account for the payment of life insurance
premiums until such time as I instruct otherwise in writing.
I acknowledge that, in the event that the direct debit of any life insurance premiums by credit card for my AMEDEX life insurance policy is rejected or declined for any reason, it will become my personal responsibility to immediately pay the premiums for my life insurance policy, or my policy may
lapse, be terminated and/or cancelled.
1.  Li e entendi a ficha de informação (versão número 1.0, com data de 26 de novembro de 2012) e tive a oportunidade de tirar dúvidas.  2.  Entendo que tenho a opção de participar deste estudo.
Tenho a liberdade de sair a qualquer momento, sem precisar informar um motivo, sem afetar meus direitos ou tratamento (ou direitos ou tratamento do paciente).
3.  Entendo que partes de meu prontuário médico (ou do prontuário médico do paciente) podem ser acessadas por pessoas envolvidas no estudo.  Dou permissão para que acessem o prontuário.  4.
Permito que uma cópia deste formulário seja disponibilizada para a equipe do estudo em Londres, para monitoramento.
6. Dou permissão para que os dados coletados a meu respeito neste estudo (com a remoção de minhas informações pessoais) sejam usados por pesquisadores de todo o mundo. 7. Concordo em participar (ou que o paciente participe) do estudo acima, o estudo HALT-IT.
Lung cancer and colorectal cancer patients had significant use of hospital inpatient services soon after diagnosis, which suggests that many patients underwent inpatient surgery in months 0 or 1.
By contrast, breast cancer patients had less inpatient spending in months 0 and 1 and lower overall spending.  The average monthly total healthcare spending started to drop two to three months after diagnosis.
The mix of costs then became more consistently distributed across various service categories, which may reflect the varying approaches used to treat individual survivors.
For example, by the time breast cancer patients reach the second month after diagnosis, the balance of services have shifted to chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
The pattern of spending by category shown in Figures 2a-2c illustrates an “aggregate” patient journey for these cancers—individual patients may not follow these patterns.
Figure 3 presents a cumulative view of total healthcare spending for cancer patients.  Over the 47- month period following diagnosis, patients who we could track had average cumulative total healthcare costs of $101,000 for breast cancer, $165,000 for colorectal cancer, and $282,000 for lung cancer.
The cumulative figures by month since diagnosis are represented in the left axis using solid lines.  Patient OOP costs are shown as dashed lines using the right axis.
Relative to total average spending of $101,000 to $282,000 for the 4 year period, the patient OOP of $7,500 to $11,000 suggests that ESI provides substantial protection to many patients.  We note that patient contributions to premium would be in addition to the patient OOP costs.
Premium contributions averaged approximately $1,100 per employee per year for single coverage, and over $5,000 for family coverage in 2016.20 Patients may face other costs not reflected in these data such as travel expenses and loss of income.
Despite the well-delineated process for recommending drugs for coverage, Canada has the second highest drug spending in the world.
Furthermore, because coverage decisions are ultimately made at the provincial level and by private insurers, the actual negotiated prices and discounts are kept confidential.  Coverage for cancer drugs varies by province and insurer, both in terms of formulary decisions and out-of- pocket costs.
Canada has a national stopgap to protect consumers from price gouging.  The Patient Medicine Prices Review Board (PMPRB), a consumer protection agency, has the authority to impose sanctions and price reductions for patented products deemed excessively priced.
However, the PMPRB is hobbled in its ability to keep Canada’s drug spending low.
PMPRB allows companies to set prices for new patented drugs up to the highest amount paid for other medicines in the same therapeutic class (an internal reference price), which incentivizes manufacturers to avoid lowering prices for older patented drugs.
Furthermore, the countries the PMPRB uses to compare drug prices are some of the highest-priced countries in the world, which raises the ceiling for Canadian prices.47.
In 2010 the German government passed the Pharmaceutical Market Restructuring Act, or Arzneimittelmarkt- Neuordnungsgesetz (AMNOG), to regulate drug prices.
AMNOG went into effect in 2011, and the legal process attempts to balance paying for innovative drug development with making decisions based on clinical efficacy.  Germany’s compulsory health insurance system is publicly financed from wage taxes.  Tightly regulated, independent, competing, non-.
a.
A desistência do servidor de qualquer curso ou evento de capacitação promovido pelo DDP/PROGEP, depois de efetuada sua inscrição, deverá ser comunicada a essa Coordenação, pelo servidor ou pela chefia imediata, por escrito, com antecedência mínima de 3 (três) dias úteis antes da data de início da
atividade; b.
O abandono dos cursos e eventos de capacitação pelo participante, sua reprovação por motivo de freqüência ou o descumprimento dos critérios de desistência citados implicará em impedimento de participação em ações de capacitação futuras pelo período de 06 (seis) meses da data de encerramento da
atividade;.
Em caso de profissional de saúde, que não se enquadre na definição de Síndrome Respiratória Aguda Grave (SRAG) e esteja, preferencialmente, até o sétimo dia do início dos sintomas (podendo ser até o décimo dia, se o profissional ainda estiver sintomático).
Next, select out-of-the-money call options with strike prices > K 0.  Start with the call strike immediately higher than K 0 and move to successively higher strike prices, excluding call options that have a bid price of zero.
As with the puts, once two consecutive call options are found to have zero bid prices, no calls with higher strikes are considered.  (Note that the 2225 call option is not included despite having a non-zero bid price.).
b) Sendo o internamento decorrente de facto de terceiro que envolva obrigação de indemnizar, comprometo-me a restituir à CPAS o benefício que me for concedido logo que indemnizado e a avisar a CPAS desse facto, nos termos do Artigo 5.º do Regulamento do Benefício de apoio à recuperação.
*New case estimate includes other biliary.  Note: Cancer types are ranked in descending order of median age at diagnosis.  Sources: Age distribution based on 2011-2012 data from the North American Association of Central Cancer Registries and excludes incidence data from Arkansas and Nevada.
Median age at diagnosis and 5-year relative survival are based on cases diagnosed during 2008-2012 and 2005-2011, respectively, from the 18 SEER registries and were previously published in the SEER Cancer Statistics Review, 1975-2012.57 2016 estimated cases from Cancer Statistics, 2016.116.
Sexual problems after cancer treatment affect survivors of many different cancers, including breast, bladder, colorectal, prostate, and gynecological.41-44 Issues vary greatly in severity and tend not to be resolved unless specific treatments are provided, which may include medical therapies;
non-hormonal, water-based lubricants and moisturizers; and psychoeducational support, group therapy, sexual counseling, marital counseling, or psychotherapy.45.
Some chemotherapy and targeted therapy drugs may cause skin problems, including redness, blistering, itching, peeling, dryness, rashes, acne, and sensitivity to the sun.  Some targeted therapy drugs can also cause an extensive rash over the face, neck, and chest.
Most of these skin problems go away after treatment is fin- ished, but symptoms of an allergic reaction, including sudden or severe itching, rash, or hives, should be reported right away.
Radiation may cause skin to become red, irritated, and swollen, which might worsen to become blistered, peeling, or even open sores.  Most skin reactions to radiation slowly go away after treatment, although skin may remain darker than it was before.
WHEREAS, on March 16, 2020 the Town of Dedham, through the Board of Selectmen, Town Administrator and Board of Health, has determined that COVID-19 poses a significant, immediate threat to the public health, safety, and welfare of people residing both within and outside the Town of Dedham and, as
such, has declared a Local State of Emergency; and.
3 - Em caso de contestação por parte do Portador, a Agência é responsável pela apresentação deste original devidamente preenchido e assinado, com cópia da frente e verso do cartão assinado, cópia do bilhete e cópia de um documento oficial (emitido por um órgão Federal, Estadual ou Municipal) que
comprove a identidade do Portador.
Esses documentos podem ser solicitados a qualquer momento pela administradora do cartão de crédito e devem ser apresentados de maneira legível.
The FDA recently recommended that a warning be issued regarding adverse effects associated with BzRA hypnotics.  These medications have been associated with reports of disruptive sleep related behaviors including sleepwalking, eating, driving, and sexual behavior.
Patients should be cautioned about the potential for these adverse effects, and about the importance of allowing appropriate sleep time, using only prescribed doses and avoiding the combination of BzRA hypnotics with alcohol, other sedatives, and sleep restriction.
General comments about sedatives/hypnotics:.
dos- ages for the treatment of insomnia.  These medications are not FDA approved for insomnia and their efficacy for this indication is not well estab- lished.
OTC sleep medications contain antihistamines as the primary agent; efficacy for treatment of insomnia is not well established, especially its long-term use.
The use of two antimalarials simultaneously, especially when the antimalarials have different mechanisms of action, has the potential for inhib- iting the development of resistance to either of the components.
The efficacy of a combination of a 4-aminoquinoline drug (either chloroquine or amo- diaquine) with sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine has been reviewed (43).
The results of this review sug- gested that the addition of either chloroquine or amodiaquine to SP marginally improved parasitological clearance (compared with SP alone).
The studies reviewed were mostly done in areas and at times when both SP and chloroquine/amodi- aquine retained a fair amount of efficacy, and it is not clear from these studies how well such a combination would act in areas where one of the components was significantly compromised.
Additionally, to date, there are no data to suggest whether this slightly improved clearance would.
Resistance to antimalarial drugs has been described for two of the four species of malaria parasite that naturally infect humans, P.  falciparum and P.  vivax.  P.
falciparum has developed resistance to nearly all antimalarials in current use, although the geo- graphical distribution of resistance to any single antimalarial drug varies greatly (Table 3).  P.
vivax infection acquired in some areas has been shown to be resistant to chloroquine and/or primaquine (44, 45).  Chloroquine-resistant P.  falciparum malaria has.
1 Reports of resistance to a given agent occurring in an area does not necessarily mean that occurrence is frequent enough to pose a significant public health risk.  Bold “Y” indicates agents to which significant resistance occurs in a given area (although actual risk may be highly focal, e.g.
South-East Asia, where MQ resistance, while very frequent in some limited areas, is infrequent or absent in most others).  Regular “Y” indicates that, while resistance to agent has been reported, it is not believed to occur frequently enough to pose a significant public health risk.
• All full- and part-time students, whether living on campus, or off campus must register their vehicle with the college within 24 hours of their arrival to Luther.  • The college vehicle registration fee is $220.00 per academic year for students living on campus, and $190.00 for commuters.
Temporary parking permits are available for $2.00 per day.  Limited “Reduced lot” permits are available for $120.00, inquire at the Welcome/Information Center in the Union; some restrictions apply.
• A student parking sticker entitles a registered vehicle to be parked in a designated student or general parking area, according to permit, if and when there is a parking space available; it does not guarantee a parking space.
I agree to abide by all rules and regulations regarding the privilege of having a motor vehicle while in attendance at Luther College.  I understand that this privilege may be revoked if I fail to abide by motor vehicle regulations.
Permits are not transferable and expire in August of the current academic year.  Luther College assumes no responsibility or liability for loss from or damage on any personal motor vehicle while on campus.
Table 6.  Medicare spending per patient in the first year after diagnosis (columns 2-5) and fractions of patients (columns 6-9) by stage at diagnosis based on California beneficiaries diagnosed in 2007-2011 and followed through 2012, as reported in [Schrag, 2015].
Spending estimates are based on Medicare fee-for-service patients only and are adjusted for inflation to 2013 dollars.  For prostate cancer stages I and II are combined due to small numbers for stage I.
Table 7.  Medicare spending per patient in the last year of life (columns 2-5) and fractions of patients (columns 6-9) by stage at diagnosis based on California beneficiaries who were diagnosed in 2007-2011 and died in 2007-2012, as reported in [Schrag, 2015].
Estimates include the full year of Medicare spending prior to and including the month of death, irrespective of when the patient was diagnosed.  Spending estimates are based on Medicare fee-for-service patients only and are adjusted for inflation to 2013 dollars.
For prostate cancer stages I and II are combined due to small numbers for stage I.
Table 9. Average costs in the first year after diagnosis (second column) and incidence rates by stage at diagnosis (third column) for malignant melanoma based on 2008 data as reported in [Styperek and Kimball, 2012]. The incidence rates are given for stages I-IV and add up to 100%.
Among those faculty participants who provided suggestions and feedback in an open-ended question, 96.6 % expressed very positive feedback.
Suggestions included: make the workshop longer, add group discussions, provide case studies, and hold a future mentoring workshop targeted on all mentoring strategies faculty may need.
To determine if there were possible changes in participants’ ratings before and after the workshop, paired t-tests were run and analyzed. Table 4 shows mean scores and standard deviations (SDs) from the Pre-Workshop Faculty Survey and the Post-Workshop Faculty Survey, mean score
This Conference Proceeding is brought to you for free and open access by the Management, Marketing and MIS at Marshall Digital Scholar.  It has been accepted for inclusion in Management Faculty Research by an authorized administrator of Marshall Digital Scholar.
For more information, please contactzhangj@marshall.edu.
 I request access through the Portal to the following types of health information: lists of my diagnoses, test results, medication lists, medication allergy lists and instructions given at each visit.   Some of my health information may not be available through the Portal.
If I want a copy of this information, I must complete PPMM’s authorization form and give it to PPMM.
 I am responsible for keeping my user ID and password secret and for not sharing them with anyone.  PPMM is not responsible for disclosing my health information if I share my user ID or password, or I write down this information and lose it.
 I understand that I may revoke this request for access at any time in writing and that I have a right to receive a copy of this request for access upon request.
In addition to providing direct contribution towards the discovery of medical research, governments in many countries have also implemented a range of indirect measures to incentivize R&D.
These include allowing private companies to claim high-level tax credits or deductions for activities related to R&D (Table 4.5).
In summary, public and non-profit-making sectors, and by extension tax-payers and philanthropists, have provided considerable financial and non-financial contributions towards the R&D of cancer medicines.
This means that in many cases, pharmaceutical companies have not incurred the full costs of R&D.
The pharmaceutical industry has also benefited greatly from the knowledge generated by public-sector investments in R&D, and by having access to research supported by public funding at costs, if any, lower than the market value.
Considering these facts, some stakeholders have questioned whether pharmaceutical companies could claim to recover the full costs of R&D through setting high prices for medicines (340,341).
More directly, these stakeholders are seeking clarity as to whether the public has been “paying twice”, or should be paying.
twice, for the hundreds of medicines developed at least with partial support from public resources (340).
This raises an important question: does the public have the right to expect governments to play a greater role in exercising more stringent pricing regulations, or simply, by imposing lower prices for cancer medicines in order to realize a more direct financial return for public investment on behalf
of the tax-payers.
Another pertinent question is whether the ongoing push by research outputs from publicly-funded universities have tilted the pharmaceutical industry at the expense of the tax-payers (342).  relationship between the government, industry and university (343).
twice, for the hundreds of medicines developed at least with partial support from public resources (340).
This raises an important question: does the public have the right to expect governments to play a greater role in exercising more stringent pricing regulations, or simply, by imposing lower prices for cancer medicines in order to realize a more direct financial return for public investment on behalf
of the tax-payers.
Another pertinent question is whether the ongoing push by research outputs from publicly-funded universities have tilted the pharmaceutical industry at the expense of the tax-payers (342).  relationship between the government, industry and university (343).
Who Qualifies.
Any City of Lawrence or Douglas County resident youth age of 17 and under who meets the qualifications standards listed in chart below, (chart used is based directly on child’s eligibility for Free and Reduced Lunch Program requirements) and whose parent/guardian submits the Youth Recreation
Scholarship Application along with the required documentation may qualify.
Scholarships are limited to 3 classes per child per season, winter, spring, summer or fall.  All scholarship applications will be valid for one (1) year from the date they are submitted.  Proof of city/county residency will be required at the time of application.
Applicants will be notified if the scholarship is approved or not approved.
How to Apply: Complete the Youth Recreation Scholarship Application form, which must be signed by a parent/guardian of the named youth applicant.  Return the completed form to the South Park Center, 1141 Massachusetts St.  66044.
One of the following pieces of documentation must accompany the application form:.
• A current award letter determining FREE or REDUCED lunches (may be on letterhead from your school district or the Kansas State Department of Education for the current school year and specifically list the child(ren) eligible for assistance).
• SRS Forms, SSI payments, public assistance payments, court documentation of aid to child.
I ________________________ (name of applicant), give permission to authorize Lawrence Parks and Recreation officials to verify information on this application.
I also understand that deliberate misrepresentation of information subjects the applicant to being disqualified for scholarship consideration.  I hereby certify that all of the above information is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
The Lawrence Parks and Recreation Department reserves the right to request proof of any of the above information.  Failure to supply the necessary information could result in denial of financial assistance.
If an activity uses supplies, outside facilities or issues equipment that is not returnable, applicants will be asked to at least cover the cost of those supplies, facilities and/or equipment.  I understand that all scholarship applications will remain confidential.
Favor encaminhar o formulário devidamente preenchido e assinado, juntamente com uma cópia de seu documento de identidade para o e-mail atendimento@brasilseg.com.br.
Para informações detalhadas sobre o produto e regras de beneficiários, consulte as condições gerais de seu seguro disponível no site www.bbseguros.com.br.
Em caso de dúvida, ligue para nossa Central de Atendimento ao Cliente 0800 729 7000, para Central de Atendimento aos Deficientes Auditivos e de Fala 0800 962 7373.
With the opening and flue sizes known, Equation 4 may be used to calculate the minimum chimney height to provide adequate draft in a properly designed, detailed and constructed assembly.
The height calculated using Equation 4 is measured from the top of the fireplace opening, and is the minimum required to produce an adequate draft.
Building code requirements previously discussed for minimum chimney heights are based solely on fire safety considerations and must always be met or exceeded.
Step 1. From Table 1 in Technical Notes 19 Revised select fireplace opening dimensions A and B and the corresponding flue liner size, L and M. Using Equation 1 calculate the Fireplace Opening Area, A o. From Table 1 determine the Minimum Flue Area, A F, using L and M.
Based on the size of the flue selected, a preliminary damper size must be assumed.  At this point in the design process, it is only necessary to decide if the damper throat area to be used will be equal to or twice the flue area.
Once this decision has been made the Inlet Loss Coefficient, K 2, may be determined.  If the damper throat area is equal to the flue area, K 2 is equal to 2.5.  If the damper throat is twice the flue area, K 2 is equal to 1.0.
The Termination Coefficient, K 3, may be selected using this information.  If no rain cap is used K 3 equals 0.0.  If a rain cap is set at a distance of D/2 (see Table 1 for equivalent diameter, D) above the termination point of the flue liner, K 3 may vary from 0.0 to 4.0.
This information may be obtained from the manufacturer.
Considerando o art.
59 do código de Ética Médica e os artigos 6º III e 39º VI da Lei 8.078/90 do Código de Defesa do Consumidor, que garantem ao paciente a plena informação sobre seu estado de saúde, eu, acima identificado, em pleno gozo de minhas faculdades mentais, AUTORIZO o médico supracitado e os demais médicos
vinculados à minha assistência, a realizar o(s) seguinte(s) procedimento(s) cirúrgico(s): ____________________________________________________________________________________ cirurgia cardíaca.
Os procedimentos propostos foram devidamente explicados quanto aos seus benefícios, riscos, complicações e alternativas possíveis, e tive a oportunidade de fazer perguntas, respondidas satisfatoriamente, em linguagem compreensível, permitindo o adequado entendimento, inclusive quanto aos benefícios
e/ou complicações potenciais e riscos no caso de não ser tomada nenhuma atitude terapêutica diante da natureza da patologia diagnosticada.
Estou ciente de que, para realização do(s) procedimento(s) acima especificado(s), poderá ser necessária a utilização de órteses, próteses e materiais especiais.
Sei também que poderá ser necessária transfusão de sangue, sobre a qual fui devidamente informado dos riscos, ficando desde já pré-autorizada.
Estou ciente que poderão ocorrer, além dos efeitos da anestesia, complicações cardiovasculares e respiratórias, entre outras complicações mais raras e complexas, e até potencialmente fatais.
Estou ciente de que, para realizar o(s) procedimentos(s) acima especificado(s), será necessária aplicação de anestesia, cujos métodos, técnicas e fármacos anestésicos serão de indicação exclusiva do médico anestesiologista.
Estou ciente também quanto aos riscos, benefícios e alternativas de cada procedimento anestésico, conforme Consentimento Livre e Esclarecido específico já assinado.
sangramentos, infecções, Nessa situação, serei avaliado e acompanhado pelo médico, sendo que autorizo a realização de outro procedimento, exame ou tratamento em situações imprevistas que possam ocorrer durante o presente procedimento e que necessitem de cuidados especializados diferentes daqueles
inicialmente propostos; tal conduta para afastar os riscos prejudiciais à saúde e à vida.
Autorizo que qualquer órgão ou tecido removido cirurgicamente seja encaminhado para exames complementares, desde que necessário, para o esclarecimento de diagnóstico ou tratamento.
Certifico que li este termo, ou que foi explicado pra mim, tendo sido explicado pelo meu médico assistente e sua equipe, inclusive quanto à possibilidade de sua revogação.  Pleno deste entendimento, autorizo a realização do procedimento proposto.
Circunstâncias de Emergência / Risco de Morte: Preencher este Consentimento Informado ‘‘Não Obtido’’: Declaro que, devido ao estado clínico do paciente ou à emergência/risco de morte identificado, não foi possível fornecer ao paciente as informações necessárias para obtenção deste Consentimento
Informado.
Por este motivo, na tentativa de afastar os riscos prejudiciais à saúde e à vida, solicitei transfusão de hemocomponentes em quantidade suficiente para melhorar sua situação clínica do paciente, com base em avaliação técnica.
Proper Sizing-Firebox dimensions should be selected so that the fire fills the combustion chamber during operation.  This provides greater heating efficiency.  Careful consideration should be given to size of the fireplace opening best suited for the room in which it is to be located.
Location and size are important not only from the standpoint of appearance, but also of operation.  If the fireplace opening is too small, it may function properly but will not produce enough heat to warm the room.
If the opening is too large, a fire that would fill the combustion chamber may overwhelm the room.  In such a case, the firebox opening would require a larger flue area and consume larger amounts of interior air even if exterior combustion air is provided.
Table 2 provides suggested widths of conventional fireplace openings appropriate for various room sizes.  For example, a room with 300 ft2 (28 m2) of floor area is best served by a fireplace with an opening 30 in.  (750 mm) to 36 in.  (900 mm) wide.
a Adapted from Book of Successful Fireplaces, 20th Edition.  b SI conversion: mm = in.  x 25.4.  c L and M are shown in Fig.  1 and are equal to outside dimensions of flue lining plus at least 1 in.  (25 mm).  Determine flue lining dimensions from Fig.  5.  L is greater than or equal to M.
d Angle sizes: A - 3 x 3 x 1/4 in., B-3 1/2 x 3 x 1/4 in., C-5 x 3 1/2 x 5/16 in.
Brick arches usually require no steel reinforcement and are an attractive option. When determining the height of a fireplace opening which incorporates an arch use the maximum height to the arch soffit. Information on arch design may be found in Technical Notes 31 Series.
Reinforced brick masonry (RBM) lintels may be built in place or prefabricated.  The advantages of using RBM lintels are numerous, but include more efficient use of materials and exposed brick rather than steel at the top of the opening.  RBM lintel design procedures are given in Technical Notes 17H.
Loose steel angle lintels are the most prevalent means of support.  For this reason, Table 1 gives recommended steel angle dimensions.
If opening sizes other than those listed in Table 1 are used, information found in Technical Notes 31B Revised can be used for design of the loose steel angle lintel.
Simple.  Complete the It Fits.  Reimbursement Form and supply any necessary documentation, such as a health club contract or a copy of a registration form for a school/town activity.
If you need a form, visit fallonhealth.org/gic, and click on “Fitness reimbursement form” under “Tools for members.” For your convenience, we accept multiple receipts and requests on one form.  Be reimbursed all at once.
Subscribers are eligible for reimbursement once per benefit year.* Requests must be made no later than three months following a benefit year in order to receive reimbursement.  For more information about other fitness discounts, visit fallonhealth.org.
To find your annual reimbursement amount(s), go to fallonhealth.org/gic, click on “plans and benefits,” at top of page, then select “Direct Care and Select Care benefit summary”.
Program eligibility and benefits may vary by employer, plan and product.  Cardiovascular home fitness equipment must be new (not used) and purchased within the benefit year at a retail store or at Amazon—receipt and proof of payment required (excludes secondary markets such as Craigslist and eBay).
*A benefit year is the 12-month period during which your annual health insurance plan design features, such as deductibles and out-of-pocket maximums, accumulate.
The infant meal pattern must contain, at a minimum, each of the following components in the amounts indicated for the specific age group.  The additional foods are required once the infant is developmentally ready.
The minimum quantity of food must be provided to the infant in order to qualify for reimbursement, but may be served during a span of time consistent with the infant's eating habits.
Este Termo de Consentimento Informado tem o objetivo de informar ao paciente e/ou ao seu responsável/representante legal, o diagnóstico, o prognóstico, os riscos e objetivos do procedimento cirúrgico para amputação de membros ao qual o paciente será submetido, complementando as informações prestadas
pelo médico assistente e pela equipe multidisciplinar do Hospital SEPACO.
What is the purpose of a RA and what makes it a good one, and who decides that it is a good RA.  Are there rules for easier writing.
If the main function of a RA is to transfer a new knowledge on a research topic, then a good paper is the one that is clear, coherent, focused, well argued and uses language that does not have ambiguous or equivoque meaning.  However, it is not only the message that is important.
The RA must have a well-defined structure and function in serve like a cook-book, so the others can reproduce and repeat explained experiments.  Answer research questions Give summary conclusions There are some rules that can make the writing and publishing of RAs 'easier'.
Here, we summarised some 'golden' rules that should always be in the mind of an inexperienced researcher (Table 3).  We put all these together to make a final list of some 40 logical steps, which can be find in the Appendix.
Although, it was assumed that the 'thicker' articles with wider range of vocabulary is preferable in the editors hands, the editors (and probably the readers) prefer simple, clear and coherent writing, rather than a fancy or complex, pseudo-scientific style.
Also Funkhouser and Maccoby (1971) showed that the information gain is especially enhanced by the “use of examples", i.e.  it helps a lot to use some non-science material, such as everyday life parallels, historical points, etc.
On the other hand, some sections, such as Introduction and Discussion, have to intrigue readers and attract interest and should therefore not be over-simplified.  For example, a mysterious title can catch readers' attention and will be easily remembered (e.g.: T.Y.  Li and J.
Yorke named their famous paper on chaos: "The period three means chaos").  Some sections require more skill and are more important.  It is approximated that from all published journal RAs in the world, only less than 5% are read in detail.
However, more than 50% of abstracts are read and so the quality of an abstracts is much more important (Gordon, 1983).  Therefore, the abstract should present the 'story' of the RA in miniature and should be readable standalone.
I request that my child be allowed to self-administer the medication described below.  I also give permission for exchange of information between the school district staff and the health care provider.
I shall hold harmless and indemnify the school and Bainbridge Island School District’s officer, employees and agenda against all claims, judgments, or liability arising out of the self-administration and carrying of medication of my child.
The use of personal data is critical to ensure quality and reliability in scientific research.
The new Regulation [European Union (EU)] 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data [general data protection regulation (GDPR)], repealing Directive 95/46/EC, strengthens and harmonises the rules
for protecting individuals’ privacy rights and freedoms within and, under certain conditions, outside the EU territory.
This new and historic legal milestone both prolongs and updates the EU acquis of the previous Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC.
The GDPR fixes both general rules applying to any kind of personal data processing and specific rules applying to the processing of special categories of personal data such as health data taking place in the context of scientific research, this including clinical and translational research areas.
This article aims to provide an overview of the new rules to consider where scientific projects include the processing of personal health data, genetic data or biometric data and other kinds of sensitive information whose use is strictly regulated by the GDPR in order to give the main key facts to
researchers to adapt their practices and ensure compliance to the EU law to be enforced in May 2018.
Pvivaxhas been widely identified in Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and sporadic cases in other Asian countries.  Many countries with both urban and rural malaria transmission may not have malaria risk in the most frequently visited major cities.
†Equal efficacy; choice depends on traveller, itinerary, side-effects, individual choices, and convenience.  ‡Tafenoquine and atovaquone can act also on the liver stage; doxycycline, azithromycin, and proguanil have limited activity in the liver stage.
§Not recommended for travelling to Thailand borders with Cambodia and Burma due to mefloquine resistance.  ||Need to check G6PD level before prescribing.
Sometimes used as terminal prophylaxis in travellers with prolonged stays in countries with P vivaxor P ovale to eliminate the hypnozoite stage in the liver.
¶Primaquine has an effect on the liver-stage (primary schizont) of all four plasmodium species, and the sexual blood stages of all four species but only the asexual blood stages of P vivaxbut not Pfalciparum.
The estimated risk for a traveller acquiring malaria differs markedly from area to area.2,36,37,45,46 This variability is a function of the intensity of transmission within the various regions, the season of travel, and of the itinerary and type of travel.36,37 Ongoing malaria transmission occurs in
large areas of Central and South America, Hispaniola, Africa, the Indian subcontinent, southeast Asia, the middle east, eastern Europe, and the south Pacific islands.1,2,5,10,35,36,43,44 There has been a marked increased in tourism, immigration, and refugee, student, and business travel to these
malaria-endemic areas.25,30,47 International migration has risen from 120 million in 1990 to 175 million in 2002.28 Non- immune individuals are particularly susceptible to develop severe malaria if exposed to an infected mosquito, particularly in areas with high levels of
transmission.2,5,14,19,36,45,46 Some groups are at higher risk.
Immigrants to developed countries who are returning to homes and families in endemic countries (visiting friends and relatives) are at much higher risk of acquiring malaria.24,30–33 Indeed, this particular group of travellers is responsible for a high volume of international travellers and
experience excessive rates of travel-related morbidity including malaria and its.
Approximately 1 in 5 articles received the open access treatment, with some journals receiving a higher allocation based on their size and frequency of publication (Table 1).
The proportion of treatment articles was determined in consultation with the publisher in advance of the study and was set to avoid radical alteration of the appearance and performance of the journal.
Based on prestudy analysis of citationvariation,oursamplesizeprovidesuswitha0.8power to detect a 25% difference in citations between treatment and control articles for all journals (P(cid:1)0.05, 2-sided).
The randomization, selection, and manipulation of access status for treatment articles were controlled entirely by the researcher, who was provided with direct access to the admin- istration of the journal websites.
Authors and editors were not alerted as to which articles received the open access treat- ment.  For some journals, treatment articles were indicated on the journal websites by an open lock icon.
In order for a team to be eligible to participate in the 3rd Annual HP HBCU Business Challenge, an authorized representative of the school must complete a HP HBCU Business Challenge School Registration Form; each member of the team must complete a HP HBCU Business Challenge Student Registration
Form; and all forms must be returned to HP at hp.bcc@hp.com by Friday, September 13, 2019 by 11:59:59 p.m.
CDT.
• Legal resident of and physically located in the fifty (50) United States, the District of Columbia, Anguilla, Antigua & Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Jamaica, Montserrat, St.  Kitts and Nevis, St.  Lucia, St.
Vincent & the Grenadines, the US Virgin Islands, Trinidad & Tobago, or Turks & Caicos.
Group Total, # Stage 0, # Stage I, # Stage II, # Stage III, # Stage IV, # Stage ?, # Stage 0, % Stage I, % Stage II, % Stage III, % Stage IV, % Stage ?, % Stage I, % Stage II, % Stage III, % Stage IV, % NHW 91951 17315 36067 23185 7899 3304 4181 18.83 39.22 25.21 8.59 3.59 4.55 51.19 32.91 11.21
4.69 Black 8804 1634 2548 2533 1073 549 467 18.56 28.94 28.77 12.19 6.24 5.3 38.01 37.79 16.01 8.19 Hispanic 22856 4155 6887 6663 2915 988 1248 18.18 30.13 29.15 12.75 4.32 5.46 39.46 38.18 16.7 5.66 Asian/PI 16251 3818 5515 4353 1359 525 681 23.49 33.94 26.79 8.36 3.23 4.19 46.93 37.04 11.56 4.47
Age 20-44 16560 3071 4245 5466 2445 627 706 18.54 25.63 33.01 14.76 3.79 4.26 33.21 42.76 19.13 4.9 Age 45-64 69521 15088 24218 18211 6812 2590 2602 21.7 34.84 26.19 9.8 3.73 3.74 46.72 35.14 13.14 5 Age 65+ 55573 9185 23052 13406 4103 2198 3629 16.53 41.48 24.12 7.38 3.96 6.53 53.91 31.35 9.6 5.14
Table 4.
Incidence numbers (column 2 = total, columns 3-7 = stages 0-IV, column 8 = stage unknown or “?”, for each row columns 3 through 8 add up to column 2), incidence rates in % for stages 0-IV and stage unknown (columns 9-13 = stages 0-IV, column 14 = stage unknown, for each row columns 9 through 14 add
up to 100% up to rounding to 2 digits), and incidence rates for stages I-IV only with stage 0 and stage unknown specifically excluded (columns 15-18 = stages I-IV, for each row columns 15 through 18 add up to 100% up to rounding to 2 digits).
The incidence numbers are based on the data for California women aged 20 and older diagnosed with Breast Cancer during 2005-2009 as reported in [Morris et al, 2013].  The demographic groups are abbreviated as follows: NHW = Non-Hispanic White, PI = Pacific Islander.
Table 5.  Incidence numbers and rates with the same conventions for columns 2-18 as in Table 4.  The incidence numbers are based on the data for persons diagnosed with breast, colon, rectal, lung, and prostate cancer in California during 2004-2012 as reported in [Parikh-Patel et al, 2015].
Some cancer sites in column 1 are abbreviated as follows: Breast = female breast, Rectum = rectum and rectosigmoid junction, Lung = lung and bronchus.
I, _______________________________ hereby authorize Sonny’s Auto Salvage to charge the amount of US$ _________.____ on credit card # ____________________________ with the expiration date of ____/____/____, CID code of __________ issued by _________________ (Card Type: Visa, MasterCard, Discover).
By signing this form, I agree with all terms and conditions of the sale/order, as specified in the Sonny’s Auto Salvage Limited Warranty, Disclaimer and Return Policy which I have made over the phone, by fax, or via the Internet.
If charge amount is over $500.00 I must supply a copy of my driver’s license and the front of the credit card.  Cassaundra Dicki 339 35 03 04 23 2112 chase 213627057371289649801008.
I understand that this information will be used for purposes of verification with the credit card issuer/processors to prevent fraudulent usage.
Please note: If your credit card expiration date changes, if you are issued new credit card numbers, or if you wish to utilize a different credit card than presented on this form, you will need to complete and provide Sonny’s Auto Salvage a new Credit Card Authorization Form.
Building on Failures Researchers continue on their search for effective new treatments for the more than 120 forms of brain cancer, but they face great challenges.93 Since 1998, there have only been 3 new drug approvals for brain cancer, while another 75 medicines have failed in the development
process having been discontinued, suspended, or had no development reported.94 That is a 25:1 ratio of unsuccessful attempts to FDA-approved medicines.
Decades of research have provided limited treatment options for patients facing aggressive, late-stage forms of brain cancer.  Although challenges persist, researchers continue to use past setbacks to inform future discoveries in brain cancer therapies.
Eu, na condição de PACIENTE ou de RESPONSÁVEL pelo paciente, em pleno gozo de minhas faculdades mentais, AUTORIZO os membros da Equipe de Enfermagem e Médica do Hospital Bruno Born (HBB) a realizar o acompanhamento da evolução do tratamento de ferida e/ou estoma existente no meu corpo, através de
registros fotográficos periódicos, bem como a utilizar essas imagens obtidas em treinamentos e/ou pesquisas clínicas ou acadêmicas, desde que não seja exposta a identidade do paciente.
Estou ciente e de acordo que esse registro fotográfico é importante para o tratamento da ferida e/ou estoma, bem como para treinamento e aperfeiçoamento da Equipe de Enfermagem e Médica do HBB, ou de outras pessoas, qualificando-os para disponibilizar melhores cuidados neste tipo de tratamento.
Estou ciente e de acordo que o registro fotográfico proposto não terá nenhum custo para o paciente, pois é feito gratuitamente.
Em razão disso, AUTORIZO a cessão dos direitos de uso das imagens captadas a título gratuito ao HBB e aos profissionais da Equipe de Enfermagem e Médica do HBB, por prazo indeterminado.
Estou ciente de que, a qualquer momento, este consentimento poderá ser retirado, ressalvando a autorização para realização e uso das imagens captadas até esse momento, sem qualquer comprometimento do tratamento médico-hospitalar que está em curso ou a ser prestado no futuro.
Certifico que li este termo, ou que leram-no para mim, compreendendo o que ele representa, pelo que expresso o meu pleno e livre consentimento com todas as suas condições, após ter tido a oportunidade de esclarecer a todas as dúvidas com o médico e/ou com o enfermeiro abaixo assinado.
O servidor acima mencionado vem requerer, nos termos da Portaria Normativa nº1, de 09 de março de 2017, o ressarcimento Per Capita, a titulo de auxílio de caráter indenizatório referente a Assistência à Saúde Suplementar.
Fico ciente, desde já que o recebimento do auxilio, bem como a continuidade do mesmo, esta condicionado à apresentação dos documentos necessários ao cadastramento no SIAPE, Conforme determinação da Portaria Normativa nº1, Também comprometo-me a informar à SUGEP qualquer
alteração,exclusão,cancelamento, mudança de plano que por ventura venha a ocorrer, sob pena de Reposição ao Erário, e que o efeito financeiro deste beneficio, terá inicio na data de formalização do processo, respeitada a proporcionalidade do pagamento.
Declaro ainda, que as informações acima prestadas são verdadeiras, sob as penas da Lei e que autorizo a reposição ao erário dos valores recebidos indevidamente.
A - O servidor/pensionista que possui plano de saúde com contrato ou acordo de parceria firmado através da UFRPE está dispensado de apresentar os documentos exigidos nos itens 1, 2 e 3.  B - Os dependentes acima relacionados deverão previamente constar nos assentamentos funcionais do servidor.
C - A comprovação dos pagamentos será ANUAL , devendo o servidor/pensionista entregar a partir do dia primeiro de janeiro até o ultimo dia útil de abril do ano seguinte, uma Declaração de Quitação da Operadora, discriminando os valores mensais por Beneficiário, sob pena de reposição ao erário, no
caso da falta do mesmo.
I understand that this Direct Rollover to the Florida Retirement System (FRS) is for the express purpose of purchasing service credit under the FRS.  Furthermore, I understand that I will not earn interest on my personal contributions (including these rollover funds) in the FRS.
I certify that I am not rolling over any of my required minimum distribution amount from my current account.  I understand that to avoid the interest, this payment must be received by the FRS no later than June 30.
Declaro estar ciente do conteúdo do Manual de Orientação para Cadastramento de Usuário no SIASG e das disposições do Termo de Responsabilidade, constante do ANEXO I. A infringência a qualquer dos itens sujeita os responsáveis às penalidades legais, em âmbito administrativo, civil e penal.
To further illustrate the possible association between stronger price regulations and lower medicine prices, an analysis was undertaken to compare the real price indices for pharmaceuticals in Australia and the USA from 1981 to 2017.
This index indicates the change in price level for pharmaceuticals relative to the change in price level for all goods and services (i.e.  all-item consumer price index) against a nominated baseline year (i.e.  1981).
These two countries were chosen for illustrative purpose because of their contrasting health care systems and approaches for managing medicine prices: the Australian Government is known to have implemented a range of pricing policies for medicines over the past decades for its single-payer national
pharmaceutical insurance scheme – the PBS; the USA on the other hand is known for its market-based health care, with multiple private and public insurers and with minimal government intervention for the pricing of medicines.
prices of pharmaceuticals grew faster than the collective prices of all goods and services (Fig.  4.6a, p.61).
However, the trends in the two countries began to diverge in the late 1980s where the price level of medicines continued to rise faster in the USA, while the growth rate of pharmaceutical prices in Australia seemed to have been stabilized at around 10% higher than the consumer price index.
This could possibly be due to the introduction of “cost effectiveness” as a requirement before listing a medicine on the national pharmaceutical insurance scheme, so as to ensure the benefits of a given medicine were high enough to justify the price requested by the manufacturer (246).
The divergence became more prominent when the Australian Government undertook further reforms of its national scheme after 2005 (247), which was implemented in response to a report that warned “in 40 years’ time, the PBS could account for 3.4% of GDP, making it the largest part of the Government’s
spending on health” (248).
The reforms seem to have resulted in gradual normalization of the growth rate of medicine prices in Australia to a level in line with the overall inflation rate of other consumer goods (Fig.  4.6a).
In contrast, medicine prices continued to grow considerably in the USA, with the cumulative growth reaching 2.4 times the overall inflation rate of other consumer goods in 2017.
Of note, the price level of prescription medicines in the USA rose in parallel with Pricing and reimbursement policies in Australia over four decades have controlled the growth rate of medicine prices.
The methods of exposure assessment will be extracted and whether the method has been validated, the number of items in the questionnaires and the number of assessments.
The duration of the exposure/intervention will be recorded as well as the time between exposure assessment/intervention and outcome assessment.
During data extraction, interventions/exposures will be labelled using the exposure codes listed in the Guidelines for the search literature reviews of the 2007 WCRF/AICR expert Report1 .  The interventions/exposures are allocated under the main headings and subheadings listed in Appendix 4.
For example, diet modifications –e.g.  diets rich in fruit and vegetables and low in fats- will be coded under “Dietary patterns” and combinations of micronutrients in supplements will be coded under “Dietary Constituents”.
An additional main heading for “Nutrition-related complementary and alternative Medicine” has been added for this review (code 9 in Appendix 4) with the following subheadings: Traditional medicine, Naturopathy, Phytotherapy, Homeopathy.
Biomarkers of exposure will be extracted under the heading of the corresponding exposure, Biomarkers for which there is no evidence on appropriate validity and repeatability will not be included in the review (List of biomarkers is in Appendix 5).
For each vehicle involved in a reportable Motor Vehicle accident, it is necessary to provide complete insurance information or to indicate that the vehicle owner or the operator does not have insurance coverage.
If you have difficulty completing this form, your insurance agent may be able to assist you, otherwise contact the Division of Motor Vehicles at (603) 227-4010.  Speech/Hearing Impaired HELP TTY/TTD Relay 7-1-1.
The fee for a crash report is $1.00 per page, with a $5.00 minimum.
If you will be mailing in your request, you may include a check in the amount of $5.00 and we will contact you if the cost is more (include telephone number and/or e-mail address); or to predetermine the cost, you may e-mail us at NH.DMVHelp@dos.nh.gov or you may call (603) 227-4010.
The implications of the significant dispersion of prices are at least threefold.  Firstly, it indicates that existing procurement practices in some countries may not be the most efficient, as lower prices could have been achieved.
Secondly, it may impair the countries’ coverage of essential cancer medicines when prices are higher than their ability to fund and provide the medicines.
This would, in turn, have a negative impact on patients' timely access to medicines and their ability to achieve the best possible health outcomes.
Thirdly, regional price differences within a country may cause inequitable access, with only some patients having access to the medicines at lower prices.
This form should be completed on paper or electronically by the pharmacist checking the work card.  Place check mark (or N/A) in each space after each check is completed.
Your check marks and initials at the bottom of this work sheet are your personal assurance that you checked all these items for accuracy in the setup and transcription of information onto the work card.  Each drug requires a separate checklist.
identity when a medication is dispensed.
Patients who self- administer their medications or personal caregivers should visually examine the medication, confirm whether its ap- pearance meets their expectations, and compare its instruc- tions with information they received from their healthcare providers (e.g., a chemotherapy calendar).
Dispensing and Administering Chemotherapy Medications (Checkpoints 6–9).
At checkpoint 6, before starting treat- ment, each chemotherapy medication should be checked in- dependently against the prescriber’s orders by at least two individuals who are trained and competent to administer chemotherapy medications.
All dosage- and administration- rate-related calculations should be independently verified.
This includes any infusion pump rate settings, which should be checked at the initiation of each container of the infu- sion, periodically throughout the infusion, and whenever a new nurse assumes care for the patient.
Healthcare providers should routinely confirm that the medication will be admin- istered to the intended patient by comparing a patient’s name and unique identifying code or number with medication la- bels (e.g., alpha–numeric characters or bar codes) and that a drug product’s identity, ancillary
components (e.g., addi-.
tional medications, diluent, and vehicle solutions), route of administration, and schedule are correct.  At checkpoint 7, healthcare providers should exam- ine the medication container and note whether the content’s general appearance is what was expected.
Many parenteral chemotherapy products have distinctive colors, and prod- uct coloration should be confirmed before administration.
At checkpoint 8, patients who self-administer their medications (or receive it from personal caregivers) should carefully read the container’s label to confirm the product’s identity and review its instructions for use (schedule of dos- ing, whether to take with or without food) each time they take
a medication.
At checkpoint 9, patients should be encouraged to ask questions about their treatment before its administration and compare its appearance and medication label with informa- tion they received about the treatment.
Patient identification using two identifiers should occur prior to chemotherapy administration.  Whenever possible, barcode-driven admin- istration should be used.40 In ambulatory care practice, it is common for patients.
My child's participation in Bricks 4 Kidz® programs is voluntary.  I understand that the selected activities may involve accidental injury and hereby voluntarily assume such risks.  Knowing these risks, I want my child to participate in this activity.
I (on behalf of my child) hereby assume the risk, and hereby waive, release, and discharge Bricks 4 Kidz®, its officers, employees, activity instructors and assistants, and all officers and employees of the school or community center sites where said activity will take place, for any and all claims
for damages for personal injuries, or claims for damages to property, which my child or my child's heirs, assigns, executors or administrators may have or which may accrue to my child's participation in this activity.
I have read the above and understand important legal rights are being waived.
(Optional) I consent to Bricks 4 Kidz® use of any photographs or video recording that are taken of my child while participating in the camp activity for use in Bricks 4 Kidz® brochures and program materials that are distributed both as printed document and on the internet.
No payment will be made for use of these photographs and/or videos.  Your child’s name would never be used in connection with these images.
I authorize Bricks 4 Kidz® staff to arrange transportation in case of accident or acute illness and to arrange for possible emergency medical and, or surgical care at the hospital listed above.  It is understood that an effort will be made to notify me at the above phone numbers.
If above such action is taken, and it is impossible to locate me or the above named, the uninsured responsibility and expense of this service will be accepted by me.
I (we) hereby authorize San Mateo Credit Union and its successors, assigns, authorized agents or any entity servicing my loan on their behalf (hereinafter called THE LENDER) to initiate mortgage payment debit entries (which may vary from the amount indicated below with future changes in escrow,
principal and interest components, as applicable) to my (our) Checking or Savings Account indicated below and the depository named below to debit the same to such account.
I (we) understand that if any debit entries under this authorization are returned for insufficient funds or otherwise dishonored, I (we) will promptly send THE LENDER the total monthly payment due, plus any late charge(s) or other fees due under my mortgage.
I (we) authorize THE LENDER to electronically credit my (our) account if necessary, to correct erroneous debits.  I (we) agree that ACH transactions I (we) authorize comply with federal law.
This authorization is to remain in full force and effect until THE LENDER has received written notification from me (us) of its termination in such time and in such manner as to afford THE LENDER a reasonable opportunity to act upon it.
THE LENDER may terminate this agreement at any time, with written notice sent to me.
We use the first 39 weeks (276 days) of 2016 as our train- ing set and evaluate on weeks 40-52 (days 277-365).  There are 72,540 scientific articles in the training set.
Their cov- erage ranges from 0 to 368 news mentions, with the scien- tific articles in the 50th and 90th percentiles receiving 1 and 9 news articles of coverage, respectively.  There are 19,457 scientific articles in the test set.
Their coverage ranges from 0 to 303, with the scientific articles in the 50th and 90th per- centilesreceiving1and11newsarticlesofcoverage,respec- tively.
We use the learning-to-rank algorithm, lambdaMART (Burges 2010).  LambdaMART directly optimizes ranking quality measures such as Normalized Discounted Cumu- lative Gain (NDCG) and Mean Average Precision (MAP) using gradient boosted decision trees.
We use Microsoft’s LightGBM to train the model, training it to optimize NDCG.  For the daily problem, we optimize and evaluate on NDCG@10 since it is a usual search engine metric and we found 10 to be the upper limit on the number of scientific ar- ticles a real news outlet would cover in a day.
For the weekly problem, we optimize and evaluate on a range of ranks 7, 35, and 70, corresponding to outlets which publish on 1, 5, or 10 scientific articles each day.
We use DART (Dropouts meet Multiple Additive Regression Trees) as the boosting type, as previous research has shown that DART overcomes MART’s issue of over-specialization to a considerable ex- tent and improves performance on ranking tasks (Rashmi and Gilad-Bachrach 2015).
We extract and treat as binary features the earlier mentioned bibliographic features: Journal, Publisher.  Table 1 displays the top 10 journals with at least 100 articles by average news coverage (all journals, however, are included as features).
As expected, top journals such as JAMA, Pediatrics, New.
the top 10.  We also extract and treat as binary features four different types of subjects from Altmetric and CrossRef: Medline subject codes for journal (Altmetric), subjects as indexed by SCOPUS (Altmetric), publisher subjects (Altmetric), and CrossRef subjects.
Subjects are mostly at the granularity of the journal or higher.
Similar journals have subjects in com- mon, with, for instance, the journals Nature Conservation, Conservation Biology, Ecology and Evolution, and many more sharing the CrossRef subject “nature and landscape conservation.”Multidisciplinaryjournals,suchasPNASand Nature, are often tagged with more
general subjects such as “science” or “multidisciplinary.” Table 2 displays the top 10 CrossRef subjects describing at least 100 articles by aver- age news coverage.
As expected, health related subjects top the list, along with those related to the environment.  Unfor- tunately, but as expected, “general computer science” and “computational mathematics” secured the last places, at 0.5 and 0.3 news articles on average, respectively.
We also extract textual features, when available, for each document: Title, Abstract, Press Release.  For scientific ar- ticles with more than one press release, we randomly select one.
For each type of text document, we preprocess using a standard English stop word list, extracting counts of un- igrams and bigrams, keeping tokens which appear in more than one document and no more than 80% of documents of the same type in the training set.
We keep the 30,000 most frequently occurring features in the training set.  We then scale the vectors of counts by tfidf weights fit on the training set.
Finally, we create a boolean feature hasPR indicating whether the scientific article received coverage on one of the two prominent press release aggregation websites, Eu- rekAlert.  or Science Daily.
We hypothesize that mention on one of these would expose the scientific article to more jour- nalists and thus garner more coverage.
□ New Authorization: I hereby authorize the Virginia Housing Development Authority (VHDA) to deposit into my account any and all housing assistance payments payable by VHDA to me under the Housing Choice Voucher Program and to correct entries for such deposits hereafter made in such account.
This authority will remain in force until I have submitted a written revocation to VHDA, which revocation shall be in such form and shall be submitted prior to such date as VHDA shall require.
I understand that VHDA reserves the right to make such payments to me by check rather than by direct deposit.
□ Change in Authorization: The data set forth herein shall supersede the data previously submitted by me to VHDA, and I hereby confirm the authority of VHDA to deposit housing assistance payments payable to me under the Housing Choice Voucher Program and to correct entries for such deposits in
accordance with my prior authorization as changed hereby.
I understand that VHDA reserves the right to make such payments to me by check rather than by direct deposit.
De acordo com o Item 3.1 do Edital de Processo Seletivo 002/2014 da Prefeitura Municipal de Tigrinhos (SC), embasado no art.
37, VIII da Constituição Federal e Lei n.° 7.853 de 24 de outubro de 1989, venho requerer reserva de vaga a candidato portador de deficiência, apresentando laudo médico com CID em anexo, conforme deficiência abaixo:.
□ Structured English Immersion (SEI): Students who score at less than reasonable fluency are placed in a SEI program setting and are taught overwhelmingly in English, but may be supported in the students’ primary language.
English learners receive instruction in ELD and other core subjects through effective teaching strategies from trained and authorized teachers using district-adopted textbooks and supplementary instructional materials.  Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level content standards.
English Language Mainstream (ELM): Students who score at reasonable fluency in English are placed in an ELM program setting in a classroom.
English learners receive instruction in ELD and other core subjects through effective teaching strategies from trained and authorized teachers using district- adopted textbooks and supplementary instructional materials.  Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level standards.
Students continue to receive additional and appropriate instruction in order to make academic progress and meet the requirements to be reclassified as fluent English proficient (FEP).
□ Newcomer Program (Secondary): Students at the beginning levels of English proficiency (CELDT 1 and 2) receive intensive ELD and content instruction through ELD, sheltered instruction, bilingual or native literacy designs.  Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level standards.
With the goal of English Proficiency, students may be enrolled for one to three semesters for multiple periods per day in order to make progress in the acquisition of English and transition successfully to an SEI or ELM setting.
□ Alternative Program (Alt): Transitional Bilingual Education: Students with an approved Parental Exception Waiver* receive core instruction initially through their primary language and instruction in ELD from trained and authorized teachers using district-adopted textbooks and supplementary
instructional materials.
Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level standards.
With the goal of English Proficiency, in addition to mastery of core content, the language in which academic subjects are taught gradually shifts from students’ first language to English in order to make academic progress and meet the requirements to be reclassified as fluent English proficient
(FEP).
Parents may request specific program details for the alternative program at each school site.
The prevailing models of emergency medical transport used in North America and Western Europe are quite costly and would be impractical for most low-income countries.
Severe resource constraints, the poor condition of roads or trails, and a lack of fuel may dictate the utilization of a wider range of options.
In the United Republic of Tanzania, for example, modes of emergency transportation include motor- boats, canoes, bicycles with trailers, tricycles with platforms, tractors with trailers, reconditioned vehicles, and ox carts (22).
The ready availability of treatment on arrival at a formal health carefacilityisthethirdcomponentofemergencymedicalcare.  Healthcarefacilitiesdifferwidelyinrespectofequipment,staff and resources, and they consequently possess varying capacities to provide emergency care.
For this reason the level of care which can reasonably be expected at a primary care centre is significantly lower than that available at a tertiary care hospital.  Nevertheless, some capacity to provide emergency careshouldbeavailableateverylevelofacountry’shealthcare system.
A health care facility’s capacity is determined by both human and structural factors.  Human factors include the number and mix of health care workers and their level of training.Structuralfactorsincludespace,medications,supplies and specialized equipment.
The level of demand placed onthe facility by the surrounding population may also dictate which services are offered and whether they can be accessed at short notice.  Health care facilities of poor quality produce poor outcomes (23–27).  Initial triage and treatment constitute one.
of the weakest links in the system.  A study in Malawi revealed that the condition of many seriously ill children arriving at clinicshadnotpreviouslybeenrecognized.Insteadofreceiving immediate emergency care they were kept waiting for long periods before being given proper treatment.
This resulted in avoidable deaths and disability (28).  In Mexico, verbal autopsies of 132 children who died revealed that the majority had been seen by a physician within three days of death.
Poor selection of medications and late referral to tertiary care were judged to be important contributory factors in more than half the deaths (29).
A qualitative study of 21 hospitals in seven developing countries found that poor triage of incoming patients and inadequate provision of emergency care jeopar- dized the lives of arriving patients (30).
Fourteen of the facilities (including 10 of 13 district hospitals) did not have an adequate triage system.
A comprehensive review of the management of 131 children treated at these facilities found evidenceofinappropriateordelayedtriagein8%ofcases,poor clinical assessments in 41%, and potentially harmful delays in treatment in 19%.
Several international health projects aimed at improving initial triage and treatment have been instituted at district health care facilities.  Most focus on the strengthening of maternal and child health.  One such project produced guidelines for emergency triage and treatment (28).
An evaluation of these guidelines demonstrated that they significantly decreased the time required to assess children in need of urgent medical attention (31).
In Sierra Leone a health care facility was upgraded in order to enhance its ability to provide prompt medical and surgicaltreatmenttowomenwithcomplicationsofpregnancy.  The annual number of obstetric procedures rose from 2 to 38 over a period of five years.  During the same period the.
1. The Proposal responder reserves its rights, should it be awarded the project, to negotiate the terms and conditions of any final proposed agreements after an opportunity to review such documents and after final agreement on the proposed scope of services to be performed.
Spectra Venue Management has included its contract for this service in the RFP package.  To be considered for an award, this contract must be returned to the Authority already executed.  At this time, it is not expected that the scope of services will be altered.
Accordingly, the contract provided will not be altered.
Spectra Venue Management has included its contract for this service in the RFP package.  To be considered for an award, this contract must be returned to the Authority already executed.  At this time, it is not expected that the scope of services will be altered.
Accordingly, the contract provided will not be altered.
4. The standard of care applied to the selected contractor will be consistent with New Jersey law. No revision to the contract is necessary. Proposal responder should it be awarded the project recommends the inclusion of a mutual waiver of consequential damages.
6. Section 14 – Proposal responder should it be awarded the project does not provide indemnification for acts not tied to its negligence, “alleged” acts or for a duty to defend but can agree to reimburse for reasonable attorney’s fees to
islation.
The following year, the California State Supreme Court overturned the merger legislation from over a decade prior, thus allowing the reinstatement of an osteo- pathic licensing board, a medical society, and a new school, now known as Western University of Health Sci- ences College of Osteopathic
Medicine of the Pacific.
How- ever, the emergence of government-sponsored insurance and managed care programs brought about new chal- lenges for the osteopathic profession.  DOs were histori- cally severely underrepresented in the decisions regarding Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement for osteopathic medical services.
In fact, it was not until 1995 that the first DO was named to serve on the Physician Payment Review Commission, which advised Congress on policy con- cerning such reimbursements.  Today, numerous issues, including physician reim- bursement, still surround osteopathic medicine.
The most pertinent of these concerns are internship and resi- dency shortages, public awareness and perception, clinical research on OMM, DO-MD relations, and the effort to dis- tinguish DOs from MDs in light of the progressive blurring of distinctions between the two professions.
All of these issues are quite complex and are further elaborated on later in this guidebook.  24% Average growth every 5 years in # of DOs since 1985.
In the late 1800s, Andrew Taylor Still identified the neuromusculoskeletal system as the key element in health maintenance and stressed preventive aspects of medi- cine in place of drug therapy.  During that time, osteop- athy was truly separate and distinct from the world of allo- pathic medicine.
Since then, as medicine in general has become more evidence-based and supported by research, osteopathic philosophy has evolved into a more complete and robust osteopathic medicine.
The phrase “osteopathic medicine” is now the accepted term for the profession over “osteopathy,” a now-antiquated term that represents a period when Still championed a near-drugless form of manual medicine.
Since its conception, osteopathic med- icine has adapted its body of knowledge to incorporate contemporary scientific thought, including germ theory, pharmacology, and other “allopathic” teachings.
The cen- tral tenets of osteopathic thought, however, have been maintained and continue to guide DOs in their practice of medicine.
Though interprofessional relations between MDs and DOs are better than they have ever been before, challenges still exist in terms of keeping the osteopathic tradition intact, improving the evidence basis of OMM via clinical research, and advocating for widespread recogni- tion of DOs.
The VIX Index is an amalgam of the information reflected in the prices of all of the selected options. The contribution of a single option to the VIX Index value is proportional to ΔK and the price of that option, and inversely proportional to the square of the option’s strike price.
Generally, ΔKi is half the difference between the strike prices on either side of K i.  For example, the ΔK for the next-term 1325 Put is 37.5: ΔK 1325 Put = (1350 – 1275)/2.
At the upper and lower edges of any given strip of options, ΔK i is simply the difference between K i and the adjacent strike price.  In this example, the 1370 Put is the lowest strike in the strip of near- term options and 1375 is the adjacent strike.
Therefore, ΔK 1370 Put = 5 (i.e., 1375 – 1370).
) 1370 ( 1 1 2 1370 1370 Put Q e KK T R Put Put ) 1370 ( 1 1 2 1370 1370 Put Q e KK T R Put Put = ) 20 . 0 ( 1370 5 ) 0.0683486 ( 000305 . 2 e = 0.0000005328
A similar calculation is performed for each option. The resulting values for the near-term options are then summed and multiplied by 2/T 1. Likewise, the resulting values for the next-term options are summed and multiplied by 2/T 2. The table below summarizes the results for each strip of options.
Participating credit card companies are now requiring a billing address and phone number for FRAUD PREVENTION. All information MUST be provided. Thank you for your cooperation! If using your credit card for payment, please return this Authorization Form by mail to:
I certify that I have thoughtfully calculated the amount requested above to meet dollar amount requested is influenced by the needs of my individual household available to me.
I understand that the additional money I am requesting may I understand that the Financial Aid Office will research the most favorable fundi is influenced by the financial need, presence of parent information, and the date Student Aid Report (SAR).
I understand that in most cases, I will be awarded dollar amount requested above, to be disbursed equally over all remaining sem am awarded funding other than Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, I understand that award letter via U.S.  Mail, and that said funding will not be processed until I ha.
Autorizo(amos) a Seguradora a efetuar o crédito no banco e conta corrente/poupança acima indicados.
Com a efetivação do crédito e o consequente pagamento da indenização de acordo com o contrato de seguro, outorgo à SOMPO SEGUROS S/A, livre de qualquer coação ou pressão, a mais ampla, plena, geral, irrevogável e irretratável quitação para nada mais reclamar, seja a que título for, em Juízo ou fora
dele, no presente ou no futuro, com relação a todos os danos experimentados em virtude do sinistro acima indicado, renunciando expressamente do direito de pleitear qualquer indenização em face da Seguradora.
Após este pagamento a Seguradora ficará sub-rogada até o limite do valor indenizado, em todos os direitos e ações do Segurado.
Autorizo esse Banco a liquidar, à taxa do dia, as ordens de pagamento originárias do exterior que forem emitidas a seu cargo, em meu favor, transferindo o respectivo equivalente em moeda nacional para crédito em conta de minha titularidade por mim instruído neste formulário, deduzidas as despesas e
tributos.
Estou ciente de que se não houver ordem de pagamento liquidada na forma desta Autorização no período de 2 (dois) meses, ela será cancelada automaticamente.  Por este meio, outorgo ao Banco do Brasil S.A.
poderes para assinar, digitalmente ou pelo punho de funcionário de seu quadro e em meu nome, o contrato e/ou boleto de câmbio e outros documentos necessários à liquidação da operação correspondente, por mim contratada, caso não compareça para fazê-lo no prazo de 05 (cinco) dias úteis contados da
data de sua contratação.
O descumprimento do regulamento poderá implicar caracterização de fraude cambial, punível nos termos da Lei n° 4.131, de 03.09.62, cujo artigo 23, parágrafos 2º e 3º, encontram-se transcritos a seguir: “§ 2° - Constitui infração imputável ao estabelecimento bancário, ao corretor e ao cliente,
punível com multa de 50 (cinquenta) a 300% (trezentos por cento) do valor da operação para cada um dos infratores, a declaração de falsa identidade no formulário que, em número de vias e segundo o modelo determinado pelo Banco Central do Brasil, será exigido em cada operação, assinado pelo cliente e
visado pelo estabelecimento bancário e pelo corretor que nela intervierem.” (Redação dada pela Lei n° 9.069, de 1995) “§ 3° - Constitui infração, de responsabilidade exclusiva do cliente, punível com multa de 5 (cinco) a 100% (cem por cento) do valor da operação, a declaração de informações falsas
no formulário a que se refere o parágrafo 2°”.
(Redação dada pela Lei n° 9.069, de 1995) A caracterização de fraude cambial poderá implicar fraude fiscal, sendo os casos detectados objeto de comunicação pelo Banco Central do Brasil a outros órgãos públicos, na forma da legislação em vigor.
Os documentos que respaldam a operação de câmbio devem ser guardados pelo prazo de 5 (cinco) anos, a partir do término do exercício em que a mesma tenha ocorrido, para apresentação ao Banco Central do Brasil quando e se solicitado.
Regarding Figure 4, it is obvious that with increase in mesh size or decrease in particle size, surface roughness comes down and results in a finer surface.
Here again to ensure that graph 2 illustrates general behavior of abrasive particle mesh size, all other conditions were examined and in just one condition a little deviation from regular behavior had been observed.
In this case, possible reason for this happening could be increase in cutting edges by increase in mesh number.  Besides, the greater the abrasive particles, the bigger their cutting edges are, so scratches made by these bigger cutting edges are greater than smaller particles.
Therefore, smaller abrasive particles produce a better surface quality.
Finally, to examine effect of finishing time cycle, last set of experiments with the following condition has been conducted: Magnetic field strength of 0.8T, abrasive particle mesh size of 400, finishing cycles of 30, 45 and 60 minutes.  Results are shown in Figure 5.
been compared with the other possible conditions and there was no significant difference between them but graph slope between these three points.  Here in the first part from 30 to 45 minutes, the possible reason could be increase abrasion time and as a result, more peaks are removed.
Therefore, surface roughness in this region improves and there will be a finer surface than first.  However, in the second part from 45 to 60 minutes, excess abrasion time makes fine surface scratched by continuing abrasion after removal of peaks.
However, this conclusion may not be completely true or even may not be the only reason, because abrasive particles will be abraded themselves after such a long period of finishing.
Here this hypothesis appears that maybe, probable abrasive particle fracture due to smash through finishing process makes them sharp again and these new sharp cutting edges even in smaller size, continue abrasion and make surface ragged.
After investigating these parameters independently, it worth compare them together to get a general layout form their behavior.  Figure 6 illustrates their effect on surface roughness in different conditions.  Table 1 shows the order of experiments that are shown in Figure 6.
1.  Decide when to clean.  Mortar must harden prior to cleaning.  It is generally best to schedule cleaning at least seven days after brickwork is completed.
In some cases it may be possible to clean earlier; how- ever, effects on the masonry and influencing factors such as weather conditions and the type of brick and mortar should be carefully considered.  Prolonged time periods between the completion of the masonry and cleaning should be avoided.
After one month, mortar smears and splatters left on brickwork become increasingly difficult to remove.  2.  Remove larger clumps of mortar using wooden paddles or nonmetallic tools.  Metal tools may damage the brickwork or leave behind fragments that oxidize and cause rust stains.  3.
Select the proper cleaning solution.  There are many types of proprietary cleaners available that are for- mulated to remove specific stains or for use with a particular type of brick.
Be careful to select cleaning products suitable for the brick, mortar and adjacent materials and follow the cleaner manufacturer’s rec- ommended instructions.  Each product being considered should be evaluated as discussed previously in Trial Cleaning.
Do not use unbuffered muriatic acid.  Use of unbuffered muriatic acid solutions tend to cause further stains and damage mortar joints.
Many proprietary cleaners contain acids, however, their formulations include other chemicals that make them safer, easier to use properly and more environmentally responsible.
4.  Protect adjacent materials and nearby plants.  Mask or otherwise protect windows, doors, and materials such as sealants, metal, glass, wood, limestone, cast stone, concrete masonry and ornamental trim from cleaning solutions.  Cleaning chemicals may also damage plants and grass.
It may be necessary to pre- vent the cleaning solution and run-off from contacting plants or the surrounding soil.  5.  Saturate the area to be cleaned.  Flush with water from the top down.  Saturated brick masonry will not absorb the cleaning solution or dissolved mortar particles.
Areas below the area being cleaned should also be saturated and kept wet until after the final rinse to prevent streaking and absorption of the run-off from above.
Thus, pursuant to KSA 48-517, Section 3, I request Emporia State University deem me to be a resident of Kansas for the purpose of tuition and fees as a veteran who is eligible for Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits or as a spouse or dependent of an eligible veteran who has received transferred military
education benefits.
Use of the MCPS Information System is a privilege not a right.  District policy regarding network access is found in Personnel Policy 5450 and 3612.  Access to the network resources may be restricted or denied due to not-compliance with this policy.
Blatant or continual abuse of this privilege may result in disciplinary action being taken pursuant to District policies.
Network accounts for faculty and staff will be setup and maintained by the Information Systems Center (ISC) according to District employment records.  The initial network account will be created following receipt of this form and remain active during your tenure with the District.
Details governing account creation can be found in the Administrative Procedures Manual under the Technology section.  I am aware of the District network policies as given in Personnel Policy 5450 and 3612.
Requesting this network account signifies my intentions to comply with said policy during my tenure as an MCPS employee.
Background: In 1995, the US wireless telecommunications industry developed assignment guidelines for International Mobile Station Identifier (IMSI) in the US.
These guidelines were developed in an open industry forum sponsored by the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA) and in accordance with ITU Recommendation E.212.
The result of this development effort was the consensus-approved document titled IMSI Assignment Guidelines and Procedures Version 1.0.
These assignment guidelines pertain exclusively to Commercial Mobile Radio Service providers (CMRS).  The IMSI Administrator directly administers only the Home Network Identity (HNI) segment of the resource.
The HNI uniquely identifies the home wireless network of a FCC- licensed two-way CMRS subscriber and contains the Mobile Country Code (MCC) and the Mobile Network Code (MNC).
The remaining segment of the IMSI, the Mobile Station Identification Number (MSIN), is directly administered by the wireless network licensee to which the HNI is assigned.
Issue: In 1998, ITU Recommendation E.212 was modified allowing IMSI assignments to those Wireline Service Providers offering limited mobility services.  As a result, HNI assignments are no longer available exclusively to CMRS providers.
The current IMSI assignment and administrative guidelines do not however reflect these modifications.
Discuss and resolve proposed revisions to the IMSI oversight process.  The current IMSI Management Guidelines and Procedures established an IMSI Management Forum (IMF) and an IMSI Management Council (IMC).
The oversight procedures should be reassessed in light of proposed changes to the Assignment Guidelines as well as other technical and administrative issues affecting this resource.
The industry also often justifies prices of medicine by stating that return on investment needs to be sufficient to incentivize the discovery of future medicines (109). To this point, the industry noted that 20% of its revenues were re-invested into R&D (87).
There are debates about whether the returns generated from the sales of medicines, including cancer medicines, are sufficient for pharmaceutical companies to cover their past R&D expenses, maintain their operations and engage in future drug discovery research.
For example, some commentators have observed that the revenue generated from the sales of imatinib had exceeded the costs of R&D within two years and “the revenues over the subsequent years of the patent would represent generous profits to the company” (30).
Another study found that total revenue from the sales of 10 cancer medicines since approval over a median of four years (US$ 67.0 billion) was 9.3 times the total R&D spending of US$ 7.2 billion (or 7.4 times using an estimated risk-adjusted R&D costs of US$ 9.1 billion) (94).
To systematically assess the financial return of cancer medicines, this report undertook a study to quantify the reported global incomes from the sales of individual medicines approved by the US FDA in 1989–2017 for the treatment of haematological cancers, solid tumours and related conditions such
as neutropenia and hypercalcaemia (117).
Itemized product sales data were extracted from the consolidated financial reports of originator companies, supplemented and verified with publicly available sources where necessary.
Sales incomes were reported net of rebates and discounts but without accounting for expenses and taxes, as per International Financial Reporting Standards.
Conforme previsto nas Condições Gerais do Seguro Saúde, a Seguradora poderá solicitar aos médicos e prestadores, esclarecimentos referente às informações relacionadas aos documentos apresentados, inclusive os prontuários médicos.
A não veracidade dos documentos apresentados e/ou omissão de qualquer informação prestada, na tentativa de obter vantagem indevida do seguro, praticadas pelo Segurado Titular ou qualquer de seus segurados Dependentes, com ou sem anuência, havendo a constatação de infrações ou suspeitas fundadas de
fraude (ou tentativa), acarretará a exclusão do Segurado Titular ou qualquer de seus segurados Dependentes, e a Seguradora poderá RESCINDIR o contrato por FRAUDE.
O desmembramento de recibo, recibos de atendimento de outras pessoas não seguradas emitido em nome de segurados, recibos falsos e/ou adulterados e outras irregularidades, constituem Crime e podem resultar na perda do direito ao reembolso e cessação automática da cobertura individual, sem prejuízo da
adoção das demais medidas cabíveis.
2 - Para análise e pagamento do reembolso referente às despesas cobertas contratualmente, é necessário a entrega da documentação completa para a Seguradora.  Deverão ser verificados os documentos necessários para cada procedimento, conforme check-list.
A Seguros Unimed poderá solicitar documentos ou informações complementares, se necessário.
3 - Reanálises: Para casos de solicitação de documentação complementar pela Seguradora, o segurado poderá encaminhar pelos seguintes meios: Site (http://www.segurosunimed.com.br/institucional/contatos/faleconosco), pessoalmente na matriz, Escritórios Regionais ou pelos Correios.
Para mais informações, acesse: http://www.segurosunimed.com.br/servicos/formulario-reembolso.html 4 - Para sua segurança, mantenha uma cópia dos documentos enviados.
7 - Caso seu pedido de reembolso não seja aceito, os documentos originais serão encaminhados para Área de Recursos Humanos de sua empresa ou corretora responsável, para devolução.
8 - Conforme Resolução Normativa Nº 117 da ANS (Agência Nacional de Saúde) de 2005, baseado na Lei 9.613 toda e qualquer Solicitação de Reembolso iguais e/ou acima de R$ 10.000,00 o RECEBEDOR deverá apresentar cópia do RG, CPF e Comprovante de Endereço atualizado para que o pagamento seja efetuado.
De acordo com as condições gerais da apólice, a seguradora está autorizada a solicitar a médicos, hospitais e serviços correspondentes todas as informações necessárias para qualquer assunto que se relacione aos documentos apresentados, inclusive prontuários médicos.
A não autenticidade dos documentos apresentados ou omissão de qualquer informação prestada, na tentativa de obter vantagem indevida do seguro, como por exemplo, o desdobramento de recibos, recibos de atendimento de outras pessoas que não seguradas emitido em nome de segurados, recibos falsos ou
adulterados e outras irregularidades, constituem fraude contra o seguro e podem resultar na perda do direito ao reembolso e cessação automática da cobertura individual, sem prejuízo da adoção das demais medidas cabíveis ao caso.
O prazo para solicitação de reembolso é de 01 (hum) ano, à contar da data exposta no documento fiscal (recibo ou nota fiscal), conforme artigo 206, inciso II, alínea B do Código Civil Brasileiro.
Atenção: Verifique com precisão os dados da conta para depósito, preencher os campos abaixo com as informações corretas e legíveis.  O não preenchimento isenta a Seguros Unimed de qualquer transtorno decorrente da não efetivação do mesmo.  Em caso de estorno, o pagamento está sujeito a atraso.
O reembolso será creditado conforme opção escolhida, desde que os dados sejam do segurado titular do plano ou do dependente atendido (paciente).  Não é válido conta-salário.
Instructions: All students in the BS program in Systems Engineering at the George Washington University must have an internship experience. As proof of their internship, they are asked to have their internship supervisor complete this form. Your help in this matter is greatly appreciated.
Na qualidade de segurado, nomeio, por meio deste formulário, como meu(s) beneficiário(s) a(s) pessoa(s) indicada(s) acima.
Esclareço que tal indicação atende meus interesses próprios e pessoais e, portanto, deve ser considerada boa, firme e valiosa para todos os fins e efeitos de direito, isentando a Seguradora de qualquer responsabilidade.
Theprimaryreasonforincreasingdrugspendingisthehighpriceof brandedproductsprotectedbymarketexclusivityprovisionsgranted bytheUSPatentandTrademarkOfficeandtheFoodandDrugAd- ministration (FDA) (Table 2).
Although brand-name drugs com- priseonly10%ofalldispensedprescriptionsintheUnitedStates, theyaccountfor72%ofdrugspending.15 Between2008and2015, prices for the most commonly used brand-name drugs increased 164%,farinexcessoftheconsumerpriceindex(12%).16,17 Thean- nual cost of a growing number of
“specialty drugs”—high-cost, ofteninjectablebiologicmedicationssuchaseculizumab(Soliris), pralatrexate (Folotyn), and elosulfase alfa (Vimizim)—exceeds $250000perpatient.
Althoughbrand-namedrugsaccountforthegreatestincrease inprescriptiondrugexpenditures,anotherareathathascaptured theattentionofthepublicandofpolicymakershasbeenthesharp increase in the costs of some older generic drugs.
In 2015, Turing Pharmaceuticals raised the price of pyrimethamine (Daraprim), a 63-year-oldtreatmentfortoxoplasmosis,by5500%,from$13.50 to$750apill.22 Thecompanywasabletosetthehighpricedespite theabsenceofanypatentprotectionbecausenoothercompeting
manufacturerwaslicensedtomarketthedrugintheUnitedStates.
Significantincreasesinthepricesofotherolderdrugsincludeiso- proterenol(2500%),nitroprusside(1700%),anddigoxin(637%).
Even though the prices of most generic drug products have re- mained stable between 2008 and 2015, those of almost 400 (approximately2%ofthesampleinvestigated)increasedbymore than1000%.23.
DrugpricesarehigherintheUnitedStatesthanintherestofthein- dustrialized world because, unlike that in nearly every other ad- vancednation,theUShealthcaresystemallowsmanufacturersto settheirownpriceforagivenproduct.11 Incontrast,incountrieswith
nationalhealthinsurancesystems,adelegatedbodynegotiatesdrug pricesorrejectscoverageofproductsifthepricedemandedbythe manufacturerisexcessiveinlightofthebenefitprovided(Table3); manufacturersmaythendecidetoofferthedrugatalowerprice.24 InEnglandandWales,forexample,theNationalInstituteforHealth
andCareExcellenceconsiderswhetheranewdrugpassesacost- utilitythreshold—usuallybetween£20000and£30000($25000- $40000)perquality-adjustedlife-yearadded—beforerecommend- ingitforcoveragebytheNationalHealthService.25 Althoughprices canvarywidelyaroundtheworld26 andhavealsoincreasedfaster than member
states’ gross domestic products in recent years in Europe,27 USdrugpricespercapitastillsubstantiallyoutpacethose inothersettings.10 Drug companies’ ability to maintain high prices in the United Statesisbasedon2marketforces:protectionfromcompetitionand negotiatingpower.
This form is to be filled out for anyone receiving a prize or award (cash or gift).  When you are making payment to someone this form must be submitted to Payroll & Disbursements with a generic voucher.  The correct account code (object code) to use is 4326.
If the prize is in the form of a gift, it is still necessary to submit this form to Payroll & Disbursements.
Abstract: This Technical Note describes the mechanisms leading to the formation of efflorescence, including probable sources of soluble salts and moisture.
Conditions necessary to cause efflorescence to appear are presented, along with design recommendations and practices that reduce the potential for efflorescence.
This Technical Note describes the mechanisms of efflorescence, including possible sources of salts and water, providing a basic understanding of the phenomenon of efflorescence that is essential to minimize its occurrence.
Although similar, sources of salts and the development of efflorescence on paving surfaces are discussed in the Technical Notes 14 Series on brick pavements.
A thorough program of efflorescence prevention or control may include identification of the type of efflorescence and investigation of its causes before options for correction are considered.  This Technical Note is intended to serve as a guide in this process.
Procedures for removal of efflorescence are discussed in Technical Note 20.
There are many, often complicated, mechanisms of efflorescence.  Simply stated, efflorescence occurs when water containing dissolved salts is brought to the surface of masonry, the water evaporates and the salts are left on the surface of the masonry.
The salt solutions may migrate across surfaces of masonry units, between the mortar and units, or through the pores of the mortar or units.
- There must be a source of water in contact with the salts for a period of time sufficient to dissolve them. - The masonry must have a pore structure that allows the migration of salt solutions to the surface or other locations where evaporation of water can occur.
1.  View your Enrollment Date in myCUInfo, myCUInfo.colorado.edu.  The enrollment date indicates your specific time to register for classes.  Assigned enrollment dates are generally during November for the spring semester and April for the fall semester.
You can view course registration instructions and important academic deadlines on the Registrar’s Office website.  www.colorado.edu/registrar/students/registration www.colorado.edu/registrar/students/academic-calendar.
3.  Degree audits are available through myCUInfo under Track your Academic Progress.  This shows completed coursework and remaining requirements needed for your degree program.  Review your degree audit prior to your advising appointment.
(Keep in mind the degree audit is an unofficial document that may not be complete or up-to-date.  Please contact Victoria Ibarra with concerns/errors.).
4.  Submit your Advisor Approval form to the Undergraduate Studies Office, room C109, at least one day prior to your Enrollment Date.  A completed and signed form is necessary to remove the Academic Advising Required Hold on your account.
You will not be able to register for classes until this hold and/or any other campus hold are removed.  Any incomplete forms will be returned.
5.  In planning your next semester schedule, keep in mind the Ensemble Rule that states all students registered for applied music lessons must be enrolled in an ensemble according to their degree program.
Ensemble selection appropriate to your degree and scholarship agreement should be discussed with your advisor.  You may be dropped from lessons and/or your music scholarship may be affected if you do not adhere to the Ensemble Rule set forth by the College of Music.
responsavel pelo educando citado acima, autorizo o uso de sua imagem em todas as atividades e no material comunicativo bem como nas apresentações relacionadas ao Projeto Tocar & Encantar e me responsabilzo a conservar e zelar pelo Instrumento Musical ( ) Violão ( ) Flauta Doce, comprometendo-me a
devolver ao final das Oficinas o referido instrumento nas mesmas condições na qual recebi, estando ciente de que o mesmo fora emprestado para uso nas oficinas de Musica Instrumental e estudo em casa e que o instrumento pertence ao CRAS CENTRAL.
Ciente das informações citadas acima, concordo e assino este documento.  03087750409-.
ACGME residency, compared to the 94.40 percent U.S.  MD NRMP match rate in the same year.  Percentages of allopathic and osteopathic students who matched in specific specialties (see Table 4-3) showed that there were some important distinctions in proportions of graduates (DO vs.  U.S.
MD) going into certain fields, namely Family Medicine, Pediatrics, and Emergency Med- icine.
Despite the common misconception that highly competitive specialties are not open to DO graduates, sig- nificant numbers of DOs enter such fields as orthopedic surgery, anesthesiology, and diagnostic radiology.
Several limitations of this data analysis were acknowl- edged by the contributing SDN member, Jimmy DeMeo, who is currently an osteopathic medical student at Lake Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine (LECOM) and the national Student Osteopathic Medical Association (SOMA) president.
For instance, the analysis did not take into con- sideration how applicants ranked specialties, whether or not they matched into their top choice of specialty, mul- tiple match attempts, post-match placement, or scramble results.
It also did not include results from the San Fran- cisco matching program, which is a third system apart from the AOA and NRMP that matches applicants to a few highly competitive specialties, including neurology, oph- thalmology, and plastic surgery.
SINCE 2001, ALL state licensing boards have accepted the Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensure Exam- ination of the United States (COMLEX-USA), which is produced by the National Board of Osteopathic Medical Examiners (NBOME).
The United States Medical Licensing Exam (USMLE), produced by the National Board of Med- ical Examiners (NMBE), is the licensing exam that all allo- pathic medical students are required to take.
Both are comprised of three tests, called “steps” by the USMLE and “levels” by the COMLEX, which must be passed for a phy- sician to gain unlimited licensure to practice medicine in the United States.
According to 2013 USMLE Performance Data pub- lished in the 2013 NBME Annual Report, 97 percent of MD students (N=19,108), 94 percent of DO students (N=2,680), and 79 percent of foreign medical students and gradu- ates (N=14,649) passed the USMLE Step 1 exam on their first attempt.
The pass rates for the USMLE Step 2 exam (from 2012-2013) showed narrowing between the groups: 98 percent (N=18,658), 96 percent (N=1,615), and 84 per- cent (N=12,203), respectively.22 The reason only a minority of DO students elect to take the USMLE is because it is optional and not required for
their licensure.
Osteopathic medical students may elect to take the USMLE based on a variety of reasons, including the desire to pursue an allopathic residency program.
Osteopathic medical students are unique in that they have the option to apply for osteopathic (AOA) residency programs, allo- pathic (ACGME) residency programs, dual-accredited pro- grams, or both AOA and ACGME programs.
However, all osteopathic students are required to take the COMLEX, regardless of whether or not they elect to take the USMLE.
Thus, those who do take the USMLE must take both exams, which slightly differ in their length, emphasis, and ques- tion type, although they cover similar material apart from OMM.
I hereby agree to the conditions set forth in the 2020–21 GRE® Information Bulletin and on the GRE website, specifically those concerning test administration, payment of fees, the reporting of scores and the confidentiality of test questions.
I certify that all information provided on this form is accurate and that I am the person who will take the test at the center and whose name and address appear on this form.
is worth noting that these two long RAIs, as well as the longest introduction in the BESP subcorpus (i.e., BESP5, with 928 words), contained the whole literature review.  The only other introduction that also exhausted the literature review was ESPj5.
Besides a higher average number of words per RAI, the ESPj subcorpus also had a higher average number of sentences per RAI.  The number of paragraphs, however, was smaller in this subcorpus than in the BESP subcorpus.
In fact, three of the 10 ESPj introductions only had one paragraph, whereas BESP introductions required at least two.
The ratio between the number of sentences and paragraphs shows that eight out of the 10 BESP introductions had fewer than three sentences per paragraph while, in the ESPj corpus, three was the minimum found and the average was 5.2.
NOTICE: The Transportation Office will need up to ten (10) working days upon receipt of registration in order to coordinate transportation to and from assigned bus stop.
Request for any other pick up or drop off location requires a Day Care Pick-up or Drop-off Request Form and will be based on space available.  In order to ensure proper routing and capacity for each bus, the following bus registration form must be completed and returned to your student’s school.
* Converted from Guilders using the fi xed rate of 1 euro = 2.20371. † Benedict A, Fourcade RO, Black LK, Stokes ME, Alcaraz A, Castro RS. Long term costs of prostate cancer: estimates for France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK. In preparation. 2011.
Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands [ 9,11,13,14,16 ] .  Annual costs were available for England and Wales, and the Netherlands [ 9,11 ] .  Cost estimates for prostate cancer in England and Wales in 1997 were at least £ 45 million per annum.
However, this is an underestimate as it only accounted for primary care costs (primary care physician consultations and prescriptions) and inpatient days, as national statistics were lacking for the cost of treatments such as radiotherapy, hormone therapy and chemotherapy, outpatient consultations,
and home.
nursing and palliative care.  If these components were to be factored in, the true total costs are likely to exceed £ 55 million ( Table 1 ) [ 9,16 ] .
When total national direct costs of the fi rst year after diagnosis were calculated to include initial non- hormonal therapies, the cost of a 6-month maximum follow-up treatment and hormonal therapy, as well as the costs for patients who relapse within a year, the incidence total cost for the UK was
estimated at £ 97 million in 2007, ≈ 0.12% of the UK ’ s annual spending on the NHS of that year [ 14,19 ] .
In the Netherlands in 1988, the annual total cost of prostate cancer care was 110 million Dutch guilders ( Table 1 ), which represented 6% of the country ’ s total cancer costs [ 11 ] . Of this, the majority (87%; ≈ 96 million guilders) was absorbed by in-hospital care [ 11 ] .
A sizeable proportion of the costs for prostate cancer are incurred in the fi rst year after diagnosis [ 20 ] . A recent publication by Fourcade et al . [ 14 ] presented the fi rst-year prostate cancer costs for UK, Germany, France, Italy and Spain using: data from the
O ceratocone, a degeneração marginal pelúcida e ectasia pós-cirurgia refrativa são doenças que causam afilamento e abaulamento da córnea (estrutura transparente que forma a parede anterior do globo ocular).  Estas alterações provocam astigmatismo irregular com distorção visual importante.
O grau de embaçamento visual vai depender do grau de astigmatismo produzido e da existência de outras alterações oculares associadas.
Astigmatismo pós-transplante de córnea é um grau residual que ocorre dependendo da intera- ção entre córnea doada e receptor (coaptação, cicatrização, abertura e frouxidão de pontos no decorrer da cicatrização e sua retirada).
As formas atuais de correção da visão nestes casos são: 1) Óculos; 2) Lentes de contato; 3) Transplante de Córnea.  Normalmente, os óculos não produzem visão com qualidade, sendo que a maioria dos pacientes utilizam lentes de contato.
Casos avançados da doença, geralmente quando as formas de tratamento anteriores não são mais suficientes, podem necessitar de trans- plante de córnea (troca da córnea doente por uma córnea doada).
Desde 1996, o Anel de Ferrara vem sendo utilizado com o objetivo de aplanar e regularizar a córnea, na tentativa de melhorar a qualidade visual.  Já é considerado procedimento aprovado pelo CFM (Conselho Federal de Me- dicina).  Neste procedimento, a anestesia é tópica (com colírio).
Após, é realizado um pequeno corte na córnea, em torno de 1mm, por onde são implantados os anéis intracorneanos (1 ou 2).  Os anéis são feitos de acrílico (polimetilmetacrilato) e são introduzidos no interior da córnea.
É uma técnica reversível (os anéis podem ser removidos se produzirem algum efeito indesejado).  Na grande maioria dos casos, o procedimento cirúrgico é realizado em um período de 15 (quin- ze) a 30 (trinta) minutos.
A recuperação visual é gradual, ocorrendo de maneira mais significativa na primeira semana, mas pode levar até meses de estabilização.  O procedimento a laser em geral, é mais rápido e os túneis para implante do anel são confeccio- nados de maneira mais precisa.
A prescrição dos óculos, ou lentes de contato pode ser necessária para melhorar a visão após o procedimento cirúrgico.  3.
Benefícios do procedimento proposto: Com a realização do procedimento cirúrgico de implante do anel intracorneano pode ocorrer diminuição do grau de astigmatismo e melhora da visão.  O resultado não é garantido.
O paciente pode necessitar de um transplante de córnea se o implante do anel intracorneano não trouxe os benefícios esperados.  Estes procedimentos ci- rúrgicos não melhoram os danos causados à visão por problemas da retina, glaucoma ou outras doenças oculares.
b) São plenamente cientes de que o procedimento cirúrgico a ser realizado, face da doença ocular e face da possibilidade da ocorrência de complicações, não permite ao cirurgião e sua equipe assegurar garantias quanto ao resultado final do procedimento proposto; c) Têm pleno conhecimento da
importância de que sejam seguidas as orientações e prescri- ções indicadas, evitando ou minimizando as possibilidades de ocorrência de complicações pré, intra e pós-operatórias, responsabilizando-se pelas consequências advindas de sua ino- bservância; d) Neste ato, informaram ao médico de todos os
pormenores de seu quadro clínico geral de saúde, bem como informado a ingestão de medicamentos de trato contínuo e tratamentos de outras enfermidades, inclusive antes da realização do procedimento cirúrgico.
Da mesma for- ma, o paciente e seu responsável legal se comprometem neste ato, a informar toda e qualquer anormalidade no quadro clínico do paciente que possa vir a comprometer a realização do pro- cedimento cirúrgico, anormalidades estas que possam inclusive comprometer o procedimento no pré, intra
e pós-operatório do procedimento cirúrgico.
a) O cirurgião a tomar as medidas que julgar necessárias, em decorrência das circunstâncias (previsíveis e imprevisíveis) que se apresentem no intraoperatório; b) Caso seja viável a gravação de imagens ou a realização de fotografias no pré, intra e pós- -operatório do procedimento cirúrgico, podendo
tais dados serem utilizados para finalidades científicas ou de ensino; c) O corpo clínico do Hospital São Vicente de Paulo, neste ato representado por seu corpo clínico e/ou auxiliares/assistentes, a dar andamento aos procedimentos propedêuticos e tera- pêuticos que lhe foram indicados.
Assim tento ouvido, lido, compreendido, esclarecido dúvidas quando ao diagnósticos e procedi- mentos, e aceito as explicações pertinentes, o paciente e seu responsável legal, se for o caso, autorizam a realização do procedimento indicado no presente termo, na presença das testemu- nhas abaixo
nominadas.
If you are declining enrollment for yourself or your dependents (including your spouse) because of other health insurance coverage, you may in the future be able to enroll yourself or your dependents in this health plan, provided that you request enrollment within 30 days after your other coverage
ends.
In addition, if you have a new dependent as a result of marriage, birth, adoption, or placement for adoption, you may be able to enroll yourself and your dependents, provided that you request enrollment within 30 days after the marriage, birth, adoption, or placement for adoption.
I affirm that the assertions in this form are true and complete to the best of my knowledge, and I understand that Harvard Pilgrim has the right to terminate coverage, retroactive to the effective date of coverage, for any material misinformation (including omissions) contained in this form.
Bandolier Bandolier is an independent organization in Europe that produces reports on evidence-based medicine.  In 2003, Bandolier issued a report on the treatment of acute pain.
Its evaluation compared many studies and concluded that the opioid medications were no more effective than the NSAIDs (Bandolier, 2003).  In 2007, Bandolier produced a table comparing the efficacy of many different oral and injectable medications for pain.
The below excerpt from that table shows the relative strengths of some commonly used medications.  Notice that an injection of 10 mg of morphine is roughly equivalent to an oral dose of OTC ibuprofen.
Dental pain A recent review article in the Journal of the American Dental Association addressing the treatment of dental pain following wisdom tooth extraction concluded that 325 mg of acetaminophen (APAP) taken with 200 mg of ibuprofen provides better pain relief than oral opioids.  Moore et al.
concluded, “The results of the quantitative systematic reviews indicated that the ibuprofen-APAP combination may be a more effective analgesic, with fewer untoward effects, than are many of the currently available opioid-containing formulations.” (Moore, 2013, p.  898).
Back pain A recent review article in The Spine Journal looked at multiple treatment options for the treatment of sciatica – back pain with a pinched nerve with symptoms radiating down one leg.
They found that non-opioid medications provided some positive global effect on the treatment of this disorder, while the opioids did not.  When looking at the symptom of pain, opioids appeared to have no significant effect.
The non-opioid medications did appear to have a positive effect on the pain, but these results did not reach statistical significance.  (Lewis et al., 2013).
Radcliff et al.  looked at patients who received opioids initially for treatment of lumbar disc herniation compared with those who did not.  They found that those receiving opioids had a higher rate of surgery and that, overall, there was no significant difference four years later.
Opioid medications were associated with an increased crossover to surgical treatment.
Four years after the initiation of treatment, 16 percent of those who received opioids at the start were still on opioids, whereas only 5 percent of those who were treated with non-opioids initially were on opioids after four years.
They concluded that those who were initially treated with opioids had a higher rate of surgery and a greater chance of being on opioids four years later but no significant change in overall outcome (Radcliff et al., 2013).
Table 6—Common Comorbid Psychiatric Disorders and Symptoms II.  Pre-Sleep Conditions: Patients with insomnia may de- velop behaviors that have the unintended consequence of per- petuating their sleep problem.
These behaviors may begin as strategies to combat the sleep problem, such as spending more time in bed in an effort to “catch up” on sleep.
Other behaviors in bed or in the bedroom that are incompatible with sleep may include talking on the telephone, watching television, computer use, exercising, eating, smoking, or “clock watching.” Insom- nia patients may report sensations of being more aware of the environment than are other
individuals and may report antici- pating a poor sleep hours before bedtime, and become more alert and anxious as bedtime approaches.
Characterization of the sleeping environment (couch/bed, light/dark, quiet/noisy, room temperature, alone/bed partner, TV on/off) as well as the patient’s state of mind (sleepy vs.  wide awake, relaxed vs.
anx- ious) is helpful in understanding which factors might facilitate or prolong sleep onset or awakenings after sleep.  III.
Sleep-Wake Schedule: In evaluating sleep-related symptoms, the clinician must consider not only the patient’s “usual” symptoms, but also their range, day-to-day variability, and evolution over time.  Specific sleep-wake variables such as.
time to fall asleep (sleep latency), number of awakenings, wake time after sleep onset (WASO), sleep duration, and napping can be quantified retrospectively during the clinical assessment and prospectively with sleep-wake logs.
Although no specific quan- titative sleep parameters define insomnia disorder, common complaints for insomnia patients are an average sleep latency >30 minutes, wake after sleep onset >30 minutes, sleep effi- ciency <85%, and/or total sleep time <6.5 hours.19,20 Day-to-day variability should be
considered, as well as variability during longer periodicities such as those that may occur with the men- strual cycle or seasons.
Patterns of sleep at unusual times may assist in identifying Circadian Rhythm Disorders such as Ad- vanced Sleep Phase Type or Delayed Sleep Phase Type.
Assess- ing whether the final awakening occurs spontaneously or with an alarm adds insight into the patient’s sleep needs and natural sleep and wake rhythm.
Finally, the clinician must ascertain whether the individual’s sleep and daytime complaints occur despite adequate time available for sleep, in order to distinguish insomnia from behaviorally induced insufficient sleep.  IV.
Nocturnal Symptoms: Patient and bed partner reports may also help to identify nocturnal signs, symptoms and behav- iors associated with breathing-related sleep disorders (snoring, gasping, coughing), sleep related movement disorders (kick- ing, restlessness), parasomnias (behaviors or vocalization),
and comorbid medical/neurological disorders (reflux, palpitations, seizures, headaches).
Other physical sensations and emotions associated with wakefulness (such as pain, restlessness, anxi- ety, frustration, sadness) may contribute to insomnia and should also be evaluated.  V.
Daytime Activities and Daytime Function: Daytime activities and behaviors may provide clues to potential causes and consequences of insomnia.
Napping (frequency/day, times, voluntary/involuntary), work (work times, work type such as driving or with dangerous consequences, disabled, caretaker responsibilities), lifestyle (sedentary/active, home- bound, light exposure, exercise), travel (especially across time zones), daytime dysfunction
(quality of life, mood, cog- nitive dysfunction), and exacerbation of comorbid disorders should be evaluated in depth.
Common daytime consequences include:.
• Fatigue and sleepiness.  Feelings of fatigue (low energy, physical tiredness, weariness) are more common than symptoms of sleepiness (actual tendency to fall asleep) in patients with chronic insomnia.
The presence of significant sleepiness should prompt a search for other potential sleep disorders.  The number, duration, and timing of naps should be thoroughly investigated, as both a consequence of in- somnia and a potential contributing factor.
frequency of mathematical connections) (P<0.05).
But results of this test has shown that the students of different strands (mathematics, experimental science and humanities) could not understand the relation between mathematics and real-life for many items of first part of questionnaire (first, second and third items for mathematical, experimental
science and humanities strands respectively) (P>0.05).
In Table 5 for first open-ended question, the findings indicated that students of mathematical strand have more frequency percent (64% for "yes answer") than other strands in first category (Quality of examples).
In second category (subject variety of examples), students of mathematical strand have the highest frequency percent in particular the numbers part; 23%.  In addition students of humanities strand has not any response in majority of items.
Also students of experimental strand have the highest frequency percent; 50.8% for third category (context of examples).
The basic concept of the course is that the students should learn from the real examples and on their own mistakes.  In most of the cases, participants were analysing and correcting each-others work.  In other cases, participants were making comments on examples prepared by Ian Cressie.
Typical exercise was, for example: a short RA is given to students who have to write a missing abstract respecting the rules and functions of an abstract.
Most of the rules mentioned in this article were agreed by the majority of participants.  We have also used results of previous investigations and inquiries of journal editors to support general conclusions.
Nevertheless, some of the statements and principles reflect personal views and opinions and should not be confused with the cited literature.  The listed rules and tips given here apply primarily to application-based sciences and RAs intended for publication in such journals.
A RA was first divided in number of article sections (futher reffered to as RAS) and elements (RAE).
Participants agreed that the main article sections that are inevitable in any modern journal are, in this order: Title, Authors, Abstract, Introduction (I), Methodology (M), Results (R), Conclusions and Discussion (D) and References.  These are the core body of RA.
Additional listed RAS's were: Author-paper documentation, Keywords, Acknowledgements, Abbreviations and Appendices.  The RAEs listed were: tables, figures (graphs, maps, diagrams, sketches etc.), equations, citations and footnotes and comments.
The RAEs can come in different places in the RA, however tables and figures are more usual in Results section and equations and citations in Methodology and Introduction.  All these RAS's and RAEs have their function and required style and should form a coherent unity.
The functions of main RAS's and discussed rules of thumb are given in Table 2.  Give summary results.
Participants agreed that some RA, even with good data and interesting results, will be rejected if the style and format of the paper are not tailored for the audience.  This agrees with the results of investigations among 116 editors (Gosden, 1992; Fig.
1), who identified following most frequent causes to reject an L2 author: unclear text, incoherent development of the topic in paragraphs and incorrect use of grammar.  In addition, the participants analysed an exemplary flawed paper by unknown author and decided to reject it after some discussion.
The list of reasons for rejection can be seen in Table 1.
Wind turbines will be used to harness the kinetic energy of the moving air over the oceans on the OCS and convert it to electricity.
Offshore winds are less turbulent (because the ocean is flat relative to onshore topography), and they tend to flow at higher speeds than onshore winds, thus allowing turbines to produce more electricity.
Because the potential energy produced from the wind is directly proportional to the cube of the wind speed, increased wind speeds of only a few miles per hour can produce a significantly larger amount of electricity.
For instance, a turbine at a site with an average wind speed of 16 mph would produce 50% more electricity than at a site with the same turbine and average wind speeds of 14 mph (Offshore Wind 2006).
As early as 200 B.C., wind was reportedly used to pump water in China and grind grain in the Middle East.  Over the centuries, onshore wind has been harnessed to generate power worldwide.
In the nineteenth century, settlers in the United States used windmills to generate electricity for homes and pump water for consumption and crop irrigation; industrialization sparked the development of larger windmills to generate electricity for commercial purposes.
Interest in wind energy has waxed and waned with the price of fossil fuels.  After the 1973 Arab oil embargo, new ways of converting wind energy into useful power were developed.
Many of these approaches have been demonstrated in wind facilities (also known as wind farms, wind power plants, or wind projects), which are groups of turbines that feed electricity into the utility grid.
Wind facilities began appearing in California in the 1980s, and, today, the cost of onshore wind-generated electricity is close to that generated from conventional utilities in some locations.
Wind energy is the fastest growing energy source worldwide at about 20 to 30% per year.  The worldwide installed capacity of onshore grid-connected wind power is about 40 GW.  Turbine sizes have increased over the past two decades.
In the mid-1980s, the rotor (blades and hub) diameter was about 20 m; today, rotor diameters are 100 m or more (bigger than the wingspan of a 747 aircraft), with the rotating blades covering an area the size of a football field.
This Order Form Supplement forms a part of the Order Form between Customer and salesforce.com, inc.
or one of its Affiliates (“SFDC”) under which Customer has purchased subscriptions to the Service which contains one or more elements of artificial intelligence functionality available for Customer’s active enablement at its choosing as a feature of such Service (each element, an “Einstein
feature”).
Such functionality is currently branded as Einstein.  The infrastructure used by SFDC to host Customer Data submitted to an Einstein feature is provided in part by Amazon Web Services, Inc.
(or such other infrastructure provider as identified in the Documentation for the applicable Einstein feature) and involves the storing and processing of Customer Data.
This infrastructure provider may use different privacy and security protections, and be hosted in different physical locations, than the Services.
Any privacy, security or physical data location commitments in Customer’s applicable master subscription agreement for the Services shall not apply to the portion(s) of an Einstein feature hosted on such infrastructure provider.
Such portions shall instead be as described in the applicable Trust and Compliance Documentation.
If Customer enables an Einstein feature in an instance or Org of the Services, such Einstein feature may be enabled across applicable SFDC services subscriptions in such instance, and may process Customer Data associated with such subscriptions, whether such subscriptions are purchased from SFDC or
from a reseller.
Customer acknowledges that SFDC may access Customer Data submitted to the Services and Einstein features for the purpose of improving and training similar or related services and features, and Customer instructs SFDC to process its Customer Data for such purpose, provided, however, SFDC will not
share Customer's Customer Data with any other customers in connection with the foregoing.
Customer retains all ownership of its Customer Data submitted to the Services and Einstein features and SFDC retains all ownership in and to all system performance data, machine learning algorithms, and aggregated results of such machine learning.
Upon Customer’s first use of an Einstein feature in an instance of the Services, Customer will be presented with an In-App Message directing Customer to confirm acceptance of Einstein feature terms and conditions.
Instructions for enabling/disabling each Einstein feature in any instance are outlined in the Documentation here: https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=admin_einstein_features_setup.htm&type=5.
By accepting these terms and conditions on behalf of a Customer, you represent that you are authorized to bind such Company to these terms and conditions.
If you are not authorized then you agree that you may not and will not attempt to enable any Einstein feature in Customer’s instance of the Services.  Please provide Account Number(s) or Org ID(s) for all instances existing as of June 12, 2018 that you would like to have access to Einstein features.
Instructions for locating Org IDs for your instances are available here: https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=000006019&type=1.  Account numbers appear on SFDC invoices.
Instances created on or after June 12, 2018 will be Einstein accessible and Org IDS for such instances do not need to be listed on an executed Supplement: __________________________________________________________.
In compliance with the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, the College is prohibited from providing certain information from your student records to a third party, such as information on grades, billing, financial aid (including scholarships, grants, work-study) and other
student record information.
This restriction applies, but is not limited, to your parents, your spouse, or a sponsor.  You may, at your discretion, grant the College permission to release information about your student records to a third party by submitting a completed Student Consent to Release Education Records.
You must complete a separate form for each third party to whom you grant access to information on your education records.  The specific information will be made available only if requested by the authorized third party.  The College does not automatically send information to a third party.
Submit your completed form to Registrar’s Office, at Cogswell College.  Please note that your authorization to release information has no expiration date; however, you may revoke your authorization at any time by sending a written request to the same address.
NOTE: For the third party designee your name on this form, this release overrides all FERPA directory suppression information that you have set up in your student record.
However, it is the College policy not to release certain aspects of the student records (e.g., registration, grades, GPA) over the phone or via email.
Grades/GPA, demographic, registration, student ID number, academic progress status, and/or enrollment information Billing statements, charges, credits, payments, past due amounts, and/or collection activity Financial aid awards, application data, disbursements, eligibility, and/or financial aid
satisfactory academic progress Judicial and Student Life records When the party named above contacts Cogswell College, he/she will be asked to authenticate his/her identify by providing at least one personal security question answer.
You, the student, should choose at least one personal security question and provide it to your third party contact.  Do not choose a question that could easily be guessed.
If your third party contact is not able to correctly provide the correct answer to the personal security question, Cogswell College will not release any information from your record.
If you forget or misplace your personal security question, Cogswell College can provide it to you by sending it to your College email address or you may come to the Registrar’s Office on campus to make changes or get a reminder.
The subpoena seeks a student’s academic records, which are covered by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, 20 U.S.C.  §1232g (“FERPA”).  Pursuant to FERPA, the College is unable to release educational records to you without first providing notice of the subpoenas to the student.
The College has sent a letter to inform the student of this request and will provide him/her with time to notify it of whether he/she will seek to quash the subpoena.
If the student indicates that he/she does not wish to quash the subpoena, or if he/she does not respond, the College will release the records to you at that time.
By signing this form, you give us permission to debit your account for the amount indicated on or after the indicated date. This is permission for a single transaction only, and does not provide authorization for any additional debits or credits to your account.
Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined a copy of my individual income tax return and accompanying schedules and statements for the tax year ending December 31, 2018, and to the best of my knowledge and belief, it is true, correct, and complete.
I further declare that the information I provided to my electronic return originator (ERO), transmitter, or intermediate service provider (including my name, address, and social security number or individual tax identifcation number) and the amounts shown in Part I above agree with the information
and amounts shown on the corresponding lines of my electronic income tax return.
If applicable, I authorize an electronic funds withdrawal of the amount on line 2 and/or the estimated tax payments as shown on my return and on form FTB 8455, California e-fle Payment Record for Individuals, or a comparable form.
If applicable, I declare that direct deposit refund amount on line 3 agrees with the direct deposit authorization stated on my return.  If I have fled a joint return, this is an irrevocable appointment of the other spouse/RDP as an agent to authorize an electronic funds withdrawal or direct deposit.
I authorize my ERO, transmitter, or intermediate service provider to transmit my complete return to the Franchise Tax Board (FTB).
If the processing of my return or refund is delayed, I authorize the FTB to disclose to my ERO, intermediate service provider, and/or transmitter the reason(s) for the delay or the date when the refund was sent.
If I am fling a balance due return, I understand that if the FTB does not receive full and timely payment of my tax liability, I remain liable for the tax liability and all applicable interest and penalties.
I acknowledge that I have read and consent to the Electronic Funds Withdrawal Consent included on the copy of my electronic income tax return.
I have selected a personal identifcation number (PIN) as my signature for my electronic income tax return and, if applicable, my Electronic Funds Withdrawal Consent.
I will enter my PIN as my signature on my 2018 e-fled California individual income tax return. Check this box only if you are entering your own PIN and your return is fled using the Practitioner PIN method. The ERO must complete Part III below. □
I certify that the above numeric entry is my PIN, which is my signature for the 2018 California individual income tax return for the taxpayer(s) indicated above.  I confrm that I am submitting this return in accordance with the requirements of the Practitioner PIN method and FTB Pub.
1345, 2018 Handbook for Authorized e-fle Providers.
Brick masonry exhibits superior thermal mass, that is, the ability to store and slowly release heat at a later time.  These properties help shift the peak heating or cooling loads to off-peak times and reduce the peak temperatures.
Current energy codes take thermal mass into account by requiring a lower R-value for mass walls, such as brick cavity walls (see Technical Notes 4B).
Passive solar design can be used in conjunction with cavity wall construction to take full advantage of masonry's thermal mass properties.
Solar design techniques, such as the use of building orientation, daylighting and thermal mass, can provide both comfort and energy savings for the owner and occupants.  It is best to incorporate passive solar techniques in a building during the preliminary design phase.
Technical Notes 43 Series has information on passive solar design techniques.  Other references are available to assist in design [4, 8].
The results of fire resistance tests clearly show that brick masonry cavity walls have excellent fire resistance.  Fire resistance ratings of brick masonry cavity walls range from 2 to 4 hr, depending upon the wall thickness and other factors (see Table 4).
Due to their high fire resistance properties, brick walls make excellent fire walls or building separation walls for compartmentation in buildings.  By using compartmentation, the spread of fire can be halted.  Technical Notes 16 Series describes fire ratings and applicable design conditions.
fire resistance method.  This approach is approved by the model building codes for determining fire ratings of walls that are not physically tested by ASTM E 119 Test Methods for Fire Tests of Building Construction and Materials.
The fire rating of cavity walls can be calculated using Technical Notes 16B.
I/We hereby authorize Hillcrest Community Cooperative to obtain my/our consumer report/credit information, credit risk scores and other enhancements to my/our consumer report (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Report”) from one or more of the three national credit reporting repositories
(Equifax, Experian, Trans Union) and provide a copy of the Report to:.
 I agree to obtain an excused absence from my school office for Election Day. I will promptly notify the election office if I am unable to obtain an excused absence. It is my responsibility to collect and complete any and all school assignments for the day.
A temporary grade of Incomplete (I) may be given if a student’s work has been satisfactory throughout the term but, due to extenuating circumstances, the student needs additional time to complete the remaining assignments.
In this context, extenuating circumstances include non-academic factors beyond the student’s control that make it impossible to continue: severe illness, death in the immediate family, drastic change in work or financial situation, or other unusual and extreme situations as deemed appropriate by the
instructor.
It is the student’s responsibility to request the incomplete grade in writing prior to the close of the academic term.  If the instructor grants the request, the instructor and student must promptly complete, sign, and submit the Incomplete Grade Contract to the Education Office.
The contract specifies (1) all assignments yet to be completed, (2) the date(s) by which the remaining work is to be submitted to the instructor, and (3) the default grade if the student received no points for missing work.
Incomplete grades must be resolved by the agreed-upon time in the contract, which should be no later than that last day of next regular academic term.  If the work is not completed by that time, the default grade listed on the form will become the final grade, or an F if no grade is indicated.
Only the rarest of situations will warrant additional extensions, and they require the expressed approval of the department chair.
I understand that my own financial institution may charge a conversion fee or inter- national surcharge not related to Costa Rica Rainforest Outward Bound School.  I will inform my financial institution that there will be an international charge made from Costa Rica and to approve such charge.
By signing this form, I acknowledge that I understand the setting and conditions of this course and that I agree to pay the amount here authorized, even though I have not signed the original charge note or voucher.
Furthermore, I have read the Cancellation and Refund Policy of Outward Bound Costa Rica (described in full to the right), and I agree to pay the amount stated in case of cancellation and in accordance with the policy.
To put these figures in perspective, the average monthly healthcare spending for people in our data diagnosed with type 2 diabetes was about $1,600 in 2014.19 Pre-diagnosis, cancer patients spent, on average, less than diabetes patients.
The post-diagnosis monthly healthcare spending for the three cancers studied stabilized near or above the diabetes patient level after several months.
This finding suggests that, for survivors, a diagnosis of cancer, like the diagnosis of a chronic condition, results in persistent healthcare spending.
With some variation over time and across cancer types, care for the cancer population involves the six categories of services analyzed.  The bars in Figures 2a-2c indicate that some patients had significant use of facility services in the year preceding the cancer diagnosis.
For both colorectal and lung cancers, total spending on hospital inpatient increased as a percentage of total immediately following diagnosis.
In all three cancers, the chemotherapy share of total spending increased rapidly in the first few months after diagnosis and, with the exception of breast cancer, continued at a fairly consistent level of around 20% of spending in subsequent years.
Radiation therapy represented a small share of total spending except for breast cancer patients in the year following diagnosis.
a) O resultado está previsto para o início de agosto e será divulgado no site do Campus de Ariquemes: ariquemes.unir.br; b) Não serão aceitos ouvintes em hipótese alguma; c) Haverá certificado com carga horária de 40 horas somente para os alunos que frequentarem pelo menos 85% do curso.
Em todas as aulas haverá lista de chamada; d) O critério utilizado para a seleção dos participantes incidirá na qualidade das respostas.
Governments and insurers have also implemented non-price policies to ensure efficiency.  For example, some countries require treating clinicians to obtain approval prior to prescribing or dispensing a select set of medicines, a practice known as prior authorization (216–218).
Medicines may be selected based on criteria such as evidence-based guidelines, contractual agreements and costs.
An important consideration for implementing prior authorization is to strike a balance between the level of administrative tasks to support such policies and timely patient access to treatment.
For example, a process review in a breast oncology practice in the USA found that prior authorization was “complicated and labour intensive”, and had limited impact on utilization because only 2.5% of prescriptions Non-price policies could promote efficiency.
O controle social é uma das diretrizes da Lei 11.445/2007 (Lei Nacional de Saneamento Básico) e ele é exercido, também, por meio de consulta pública, quando decisões precisam ser tomadas na gestão dos serviços de saneamento básico nos municípios.
Este formulário deve ser preenchido com sugestões para a melhoria ou ajuste da minuta do Contrato de Programa entre o Município de Seabra/BA e a Embasa.  O envio de sugestões pode ser feito de 24 de julho a 04 de agosto de 2020 exclusivamente para o e-mail projurseabra@gmail.com.
Informações adicionais podem ser solicitadas por meio do e-mail acima.
* O código do curso pode ser consultado no site https://emec.mec.gov.br/, e não precisa ser especificado para os cursos de pós-graduação.  ** O nome do curso deve estar conforme descrito no histórico escolar.  *** Informe o percentual de conclusão do curso.
Esta informação pode ser consultada no Sistema Integrado de Gestão de Atividades Acadêmicas – SIGAA.
Chemo = chemotherapy and includes targeted therapy and immunotherapy drugs; RPLND = retroperitoneal lymph node dissection; RT = radiation therapy.  NOTE: A small proportion of patients (<1% of early stage and about 5% of late stage) who underwent surgery also had RT.
Source: National Cancer Data Base, 2013.102.
should be particularly mindful of risk factors such as high cho- lesterol, high blood pressure, obesity, and smoking. Consultation about fertility risks prior to treatment and referral for sperm banking as appropriate are both important in promoting qual- ity of life outcomes.
increasing worldwide over the past few decades.
The rise is thought to be partly due to increased detection because of more sensitive diagnostic procedures, resulting in some overdiagno- ses of papillary thyroid cancers.135 However, observed increases in rates of follicular thyroid cancer, as well as increases across tumor size and stages, may be
associated with the rise in risk factors such as obesity.136-138.
It is estimated that there were 805,750 people living with a past diagnosis of thyroid cancer in the US as of January 1, 2016, and an additional 64,300 will be diagnosed in 2016. Thyroid cancer is the most rapidly increasing cancer in the US and has been
SIASS – CEFET/MG: (31) 3319-7092 / (31) 3319-7094 NOTA: Em atendimento ao disposto no § 4º do art. 4º do Decreto 7003/2009, o atestado deverá ser apresentado no prazo máximo de cinco dias contados da data de início do afastamento do servidor, salvo por motivo justificado.
3) Employer/Company should review this form for completeness and suitability.
If Employer / Company prefers or requires their own form, use account type, number and ABA routing number below to help complete their form 4) Mail form directly to Employer / Company (Note: It is not necessary for employer or company to return the form to the bank once direct deposit is set up into
the payroll system).
I (we) authorize the above named Company to initiate credit entries to my Bank of America Checking and/or Savings accounts indicated below and to credit the same to such amount.
I (we) acknowledge that the origination of the ACH transactions to my (our) account must comply with the provisions of U.S.  Law.
If monies to which I am not entitled are deposited to my account, I authorize the Company (issuer) to direct the financial institution to return said funds and I authorize the financial institution to act on the Company's direction and to return said funds.
This authority will remain in effect until Employer/Company has received written notification from me of its termination in such time and in such manner as to afford Company and financial institution a reasonable opportunity to act on it.
The abstracts from 618 original scientific articles published in the Journal of Nuclear Cardiology (JNC) were used for this research and experiments.  These abstracts summarize the knowledge of the entire scientific manuscripts published by JNC from 1995 to 2004.
We have used this resource to build the knowledgebase of relevant terms and relations.  We extracted 10191 term (phrases) from these articles.  These terms are noun phrases that have at least one mapping in the UMLS metathesaurus.
We used an expert provided list of 42 relevant domain terms for the Myocardial Perfusion Imaging domain (a sub-domain of nuclear cardiology) to heuristically test the coverage of our ontology terms.
Of these, we found 31 exactly matching terms, 2 morphological variants and 8 phrases that contained the terms from the expert list.  Out of this 42 domain terms, 1 term, ‘dyperidamole’, was not found in our ontology (dyperidamole is a drug given during pregnancy).
We found that this term didn’t exist in the 618 JNC abstracts we were using.  Instead, another term, diperidamole (spelling variant) existed in our term list.
To do away with noise in our data, we selected terms with greater than average frequency (2.9) of the 10191 retrieved terms and set that as our threshold.  We pruned the list to.
Many complicated and expensive techniques have been applied extensively in literature to extract relationships and dependencies from data.  These techniques generally rely on a deep parse results that gives a rich representation which is used for applications in knowledge extraction and semantics.
The problem with biomedical data parsing is that there is no exhaustive tagged training corpus available to build models for efficient parsing on test data.  Also, deep parsing is computationally very expensive compared to shallow parsing that uses the finite state automaton techniques.
UMLS graciously provides such a shallow parser[7] that is trained on entire Medline corpus and claims to achieve over 97% accuracy.
9.  I plan to use the following privacy structure for my page (please check).
 Open public access to view and post  Open public access to view, with no ability to post  Viewing access limited only to invited members (private or secret Facebook group)  Other __________________________________________.
10. I acknowledge that I will be solely responsible for managing the information and posts on my page. I also affirm that I intend to give one of my supervisors, and/or the GCSS Communications Coordinator, administrator-level access to my page, group or account, to assist in case of emergency.
Instructions: All students in the BS program in Systems Engineering at the George Washington University must have an internship experience. As proof of their internship, they are asked to have their internship supervisor complete this form. Your help in this matter is greatly appreciated.
Table 2.  Breast cancer incidence rates (in %) by stage at diagnosis from 2004 to 2011 for women who were identified in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) 18 registries database, as reported in [Iqbal et al, 2015].
Columns 3-10 correspond to the eight racial/ethnic groups identified therein.  Column 2 corresponds to all racial/ethnic groups.
- Fees for full conference and single day registrations will be $25 higher after June 22.  - Registrants who join MRN within the two weeks following the conference may deduct the difference between the member and non-member rate from their dues payment.
- Organizations that register 3 or more individuals may deduct $10 per registration from the total due.  To receive discount, please make copies of this form and submit all registrations together listing payment information on first copy only.
Refunds: All requests must be in writing and received on or prior to June 22.  No refunds will be made after this date.  A cancellation fee of $30 per registration will be deducted for all refunds.
Information Science                 Northeastern University                 Information Science
Northeastern University                    Boston, MA                      Northeastern University
Boston, MA                                                                  Boston, MA
Competency                                    Essential Need  Rating 2016
Professionalism/Work    Ethics                                                  4.7
Oral/Written  Communication                                                     4.4
Information  Technology   Application                                           3.9
Career  Management                                                              3.6
Note. Weighted  average. Rated on the 5-point scale where 1 =  Not essential; 2 = Not very essential; 3
Source. Job Outlook 2016  Spring Update  (National Association of Colleges and Employers,  2016).
(         ) Retorno     ao   trabalho                        (         ) Exoneração
Nome:          juan  zeballos                                                   Matrícula:  750173
Local de Trabalho:                                              Telefones  de Contato:    +5598982965894
R. Siqueira Campos, 304 - COHAB, Recife, PE, 50010-010, Brazil
Retiree Brian Anderson                                          SSN  306-42-5646
City New York                                                          State NY     Zip 10023
ABA Routing Number  65378098              Account Number  01 2310 630 0 0002
Authorized Signature:                                                                        Date:    12/04/2012
Name:                  Rafal Cieslak
SERVIÇO PÚBLICO FEDERAL
PRÓ-REITORIA DE ENSINO
FORMULÁRIO            DE  INSCRIÇÃO                                 Nº
Nome    do  estudante:  juan   zeballos
Horário:   (   )  Manhã            (   ) Tarde         (   ) Noite      (   )  Integral
Endereço:    Av.  Agua    Verde,   2140    - 223  - Agua    Verde
E-mail   (obrigatório):  juan.zeballos@gmail.com
Celular   (Aluno):      +55-98982965894                          Celular   (responsável):
PROCEDÊNCIA            ESCOLAR
Ensino   Fundamental:        Escola    das  Nações                      (  ) Escola   Pública    (  ) Escola   particular
Ensino   Médio    (Para  aluno  do  subsequente    e superior)           (  ) Escola  Pública    (  ) Escola   particular
Como    ficou  sabendo    do Programa     de Assistência    Estudantil?
(   ) Colega   do  curso
(   )  Site do  IFAP
(   )  Seção  de  Gerenciamento      da  Assistência   ao  Estudante   – SEGAE
(   )  Informativos    fixados  nas  dependências     do  campus
INDIQUE       AS  MODALIDADES             DE   AUXÍLIOS       QUE     DESEJA      CONCORRER
(  ) Material   didático                 (   )Transporte
Standard           This is a generally accepted patient-care strategy that reflects a high degree of clinical certainty. The term standard generally
implies the use of Level 1 Evidence,  which  directly addresses the clinical issue, or overwhelming Level  2 Evidence.
Guideline          This is a patient-care strategy that reflects a moderate degree of clinical certainty. The term guideline  implies the use of
Option             This is a patient-care strategy that reflects uncertain clinical use. The term option implies insufficient, inconclusive, or con-
Pós-Graduação   em Geografia - PPGEO,  na área de Concentração Paisagens Naturais e Meio Ambiente, na Linha de
TÍTULO   DA  DISS./TESE:  Análise de imagem  para  câncer
Nº MATRÍCULA:    2020201                    CURSO:   DLD
NOME   DO  ORIENTADOR(A):     Michael Edgar Perlman
DATA   DO  INÍCIO DO  CURSO:   12/4/2020
DATA   APROVAÇÃO     DO  PROJETO    DE DISSERTAÇÃO/     TESE: 1/4/2020
PERÍODO   DA  PRORROGAÇÃO       PARA      2 meses               (incluir mês para avaliação da banca)
Não  Decidido
Justificativa para prorrogação (problemas de saúde, de acesso a dados, computacionais, etc )
problemas  de saúde
Parecer do Orientador(a)
I            Fallon  Kuphal                    authorize  National  Auto Lenders   to charge my  credit card
to NAL  Account  #     703739215       in the name   of Salvador   Kuphal
(name  of the NAL account holder)
Cardholder   Name:             Fallon  Kuphal                                       (as it appears on the card)
Billing Address:   4223   E  Mission   Blvd                       City, State, Zip: Fayetteville,  AR,  72703
fallon.kuphal@gmail.com
All information on the form must be complete (fully filled in), accurate, and legible. NAL reserves the right to
information is unreadable. All payments will be entered as paid on the date on which they are received. Your
Name:  Leanne  Jasset                                     Date:
Victor Santos  Martins Gomes                                                     286
Vem   requerer  à Il.ma Sr.ª Chefe  da Divisão  de  Saúde   Complementar,   nos   termos   do  Ato
constante(s) da(s) nota(s) fiscal(is) em anexo:
( ) medicamentos
Eu  Fernando Bezerra Coelho                       autorizo o uso do meu cartão de
crédito para pagar a encomenda # 4827629                 (número de pedido) da
Authorization        To  Charge      a  Purchase
By Signing below, I authorize All Security Equipment / FAS to charge this purchase to my credit card.
I understand this is a “custom order” and my card will be charged upon receipt of this purchase order.
Company     Name:                                   Card  Type   : Circle One
Amazon                                            American     Express        Visa
4356622543946027
Print Signed  Name:                                 Card  Expiration Date:
Britt Kirlin                              09/21
Manager                                            Britt Kirlin
Verification  Code:                           $ Amount   of Purchase:     Purchase   Date:
Phone   #: (          )     850-951-1257 -
Address   where   credit  card  bill goes:
1931  W   Deane   St
Fayetteville                          AR                                         72703
Please  do not write below  this line
79387492                                  Annalee  Kirlin
Nome     do  Paciente:      Arthur    Pesquisa                                                                                                      n O Prontuário:     3940.941.378A
Endereço      do  Paciente:          R.  Gen.     Canabarro,       485    - Maracana
Cidade:         Rio   de  Janeiro                                       Estado:     RJ               CEP:    20271-204                        Tel:  +5598988578047
Profissional     Requisitante:          Claudio     Haddad
Endereço      do  Profissional:               Av.   Luís   Viana,    600    - 4º  Andar     - Imbuí
E-mail:   chaddad@kpx.com.br
Tipo   do  material    obtido:   (  ) tecido   mole      (   ) osso     (   ) dente      (  ) esfregaço        (   ) punção       (   ) outros:
Localizacão:      Av.   Agua    Verde,     2140    -  223   - Agua     Verde,     Curitiba,    PR,    80240-070,       Brazil
Tamanho:   22                        Cor: branco                 Base: NA                  Consistência: sim
Tempo  de evolução -
Exames  imaginológicos (anexar) : -
03
NA
Hipótese(s) de diagnóstico:
(Local)            (Data)                         (Profissional Responsável)
99347-99350, 99384-99387, 99394-99397, 99401-99404, 085X, 088X, 0982, 0983
99411, 99412, 99420, 99429, 99455, 99456
99334-99337                                       0525, 055X, 066X
ACUTE  INPATIENT                                                                  010X, 0110-0114, 0119, 0120-0124, 0129, 0130-
OBSERVATION                     99217-99220, 99224-99226
Data: 18/03/2008
Nome:  Miguel Pryor
Pesquisador
Participei do processo de obtenção do termo de consentimento  livre e esclarecido
Assinatura:
No  caso de participantes analfabetos:
Assinatura Dactiloscópica:
Presenciei a solicitação de consentimento, esclarecimento sobre a pesquisa e aceite em
Assinatura:
□    Cough                                                          □    Muscle or body aches
□    Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing                    □    Nausea/vomiting/diarrhea
□    Chills                                                         □    Headache
press #, or contact our office at 509.684.2262. More information can be found  on our website at www.netchd.org   or at
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov.
Sincerely,
Sam  Artzis, MD
Published  9/17/2020
If you have further questions concerning COVID-19  you can  consult your healthcare provider, contact the state Call Center 1.800.525.0127 and
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov.
Sincerely,
Sam  Artzis, MD
Published  9/17/2020
Guest / Group Name:
Check-In / Event Date:                               Confirmation / Event Number:
Kieth  Crist                                                                   985  641   9480
Cardholder Name  as it Appears on Credit Card:
Kieth  Crist
327  Baxter   Ln  Fayetteville,  AR  72701,   USA
Credit Card Type: (Circle one)     Visa     MasterCard     Amex        Discover
Credit Card Issuing Bank Name:                       Bank  Phone Number   (from back of your credit card):
Chase    bank
Is this card linked  to a checking/Debit     account?   (Please  circle one)           YES            NO
Other Expenses                                            $ 600
Total Amount                                              $ 1000
Deposit to be immediately charged for room/tax  or group event:
$1000                                                 4463242                               03      06     2020
Credit Card Security Check with Bank Complete  (Signature)  :
VEHICLE         #1   INFORMATION
Vehicle Registered To:
Vehicle License Plate #:
VEHICLE         #2    INFORMATION
Vehicle Registered To:
State of Registration:
Vehicle License Plate #:
Circle one: Visa • MasterCard • Discover         Card #:
Expiration Date:                                 Cardholder’s Name:
Daytime  Phone:                                  Cardholder’s Signature:
SUNY
Survival/all-cause mortality                         Yes /No  /Not clear
cancer  mortality                                    Yes /No  /Not clear
primary cancer  recurrence                           Yes /No  /Not clear
second  primary cancer                               Yes /No  /Not clear
Autorização    de  Crédito  em  Conta   Bancária
Ocorrência:
Banco  do Brasil
Segurado:
Claudio Haddad
Corrente            Poupança           Ordem   de Pagamento(Itaú)
Otto Alencar                                                           75906988491  / 05124620000156
DDD   e Fone Favorecido(a)              E-mail:
027284011                                                          juan      zeballos
PROCEDIMENTOS                     SOLICITADOS              (ver    tabela    no   verso)
8 - Código do  Procedimento                     9 - Descrição                                                                                                                                 10 - Dente/Região    11- Face
2 -
3 -
4 -
5 -
6 -
7 -
8 -
9 -
10 -
11 -
12 -
13-
14-
PHONE    MODEL        Iphone  7 Plus
under battery pack)
RG:  53.776.609-1     ORG. EXPED.:                      UF: RJ
BANCO: BANCO INTER - (Rio de Janeiro) AGÊNCIA:       CONTA: 53286-1
DATA  EMISSÃO: 12  / 10 / 2015
NOME  DA ESCOLA:  Avenues  São Paulo
R. Pedro Avancine, 73 - Real Parque
CIDADE:  São  Paulo       BAIRRO:  Real Parque          CEP: 05679-160
ENDEREÇO   DA ESTUDANTE:  Arthur Pesquisa
CIDADE: Rio de Janeiro    BAIRRO:  Maracana             CEP: 20271-204
ASSINALAR  O TAMANHO   DO  JALECO: ( )P          ( )M           ( )G
DISCIPLINA:       Estruturas de dados
PROFº.   ORIENTADOR:        Andre  Debars
2. DADOS    DO  MONITOR:
NOME:    Monica Herz
TELEFONE     RESIDENCIAL:      +55-61-3321-3544                CELULAR:      (99) 3621-1043/5960
E-MAIL     herz@rdc.puc-rio.br                                       CPF:    75906988491
BANCO     Banco Máxima                Agência   -                 Conta Corrente   160.568-2
3. DADOS    DO  ORIENTADOR:
NOME:    Thomas  Leitz
Nº MATRÍCULA:      6026133                REGIME    DE  TRABALHO:      Não disponível
CARGO:     Banco Santander S.A             TITULAÇÃO:       Não disponível
Type of Account: ☐Checking    ☐Savings
Sign Here
Print Preparer’s Name 
Phone  Number  
Level of action required           Time frame  for action*                   Proposed  actions taken by:
Inter-                                                                    Health care
Option                                        Local    Regional  National  national   Short    Medium     Long    Government^      Payer^    Industry  professional Patients
Inter-                                                                    Health care
Option                                        Local    Regional  National  national   Short    Medium     Long    Government^      Payer^    Industry  professional Patients
Employee  Name:
Enterprise Email:
Home/Cell:
Supervisor Name:                                  Work  Phone:
Supervisor Email:
ATAAPS  Team:
Graded or Ungraded:
Tenure:
Geraldo Coen
DATA DE NASCIMENTO:   11/02/1988    CIDADE:   Vitoria           UF: ES
CRM/SP:    7301063                  CPF:    15376410854
Diagnósticos  secundários:   Pressão    alta
Tipo de anestesia / sedação:                                                           Data:
2- Cirurgia realizada:                                                         Cirurgião:
Procedimentos   / Exames   Invasivos            Não
1-                                                                                        Data:
3-                                                                                        Data:
Curado           Melhorado           Inalterado         Óbito
Destino:       Residência      Atendimento   domiciliar        Transferência para:
Retornar:      Consultório em                      dias    Aos cuidados  de:.
Observações:   Tudo  bem
1- Cirurgia realizada:                                                         Cirurgião:
Tipo de anestesia / sedação:                                                           Data:
2- Cirurgia realizada:                                                         Cirurgião:
1-                                                                                        Data:
Retornar:      Consultório em                      dias    Aos cuidados  de:.
Iset  Medina     Vera,    …   , Maria    M.  Mota,    Liliana   Mancio-Silva
JCI Insight. 2019;4(24):e127441. https://doi.org/10.1172/jci.insight.127441.
Student’s Name:                                                                     Date:
Current School:                                                      Current Grade:
Parent’s Signature:                                              Telephone:
Parent's Email:
Role  I                                       Role  II                                     Role   III                                       Role   IV
• Unit-level  medical   care                  • Advanced    trauma   and                   • Providing   support   to units without         • Most  definitive  medical   care  in
• Immediate    life saving  measures          Management      emergency     medical        organic   medical   assets                       military health  system
WHO:                                          treatment                                    •  Caring   for patients  in medical             WHO:
• Combat    medics                            WHO:                                         treatment   facility (MTF)   with proper         •  Physicians/physician     assistants
• Special   Forces   Medical   Sergeant       • Conduct   advanced    resuscitation        •  Physicians/physician     assistant            CAPABILITIES:
(l8D)                                         up to damage     control surgery             •  Medical   personnel   in MTF                  •  Post-op   rehabilitation
• Medical   technicians                       • Prepare   for Role  3 and  4               CAPABILITIES:                                    •  Significant/life-threatening
CAPABILITIES:                                 • Role 2  Enhanced    (2EN):                 •  Resuscitation                                 surgeries
• Disease    /non-battle  injury              • Basic  secondary    healthcare             •  Initial wound   surgery                       •  Advanced     equipment    access
prevention   and  care                        • Stabilize post-surgical   cases   for      •  Specialty   surgery                           •  Usage   of CONUS      and  civilian
prevention                                    CAPABILITIES:                                •  Evacuating    patients  from  supported       WHERE:
• Resuscitation    and  stabilization         • Dental  support                            •  Pharmacy     access
WHERE:                                        WHERE:                                       •  Medical   treatment   facility
• Holding   patients                          • Holding   many   patients
• Healing   serious  injury or  illness       • Holding   for more   than  72 hours
This table  was   extracted    from  Cubano,    M.  A., &  Butler, F. K. (2018).   Emergency     War    Surgery.   (pp.  19-22).   Fort  Sam   Houston,   TX: Borden    Institute, US  Army   Medical
(1) Foreign currency  reserves  (in convertible foreign currencies)                   92,525
of which:  issuer headquartered   in Hong  Kong  but located abroad                         0
(iii) banks headquartered  outside  Hong  Kong   (Note  4)                              4,766
of which:  located in Hong  Kong                                                        4,524
(2) IMF reserve  position                                                                   0
—volume    in fine troy ounces   (66,916  ounces  at USD  276)
(5) other reserve assets  (specify)                                                     1,396
—financial  derivatives  (Note  5)                                                        -81
—loans   to nonbank  nonresidents                                                           0
—other   (Note  6)                                                                      1,477
B. Other  foreign currency assets  (specify)   (Note  7)                                   19
—deposits   not included  in official reserve assets                                       16
—loans   not included in official reserve assets
—financial  derivatives not included  in official reserve assets
—gold   not included in official reserve assets
—other                                                                                      3
Changes  to the structure of the database                       June-December   2010
Start Medline  search of relevant articles                      November   2010
Review  abstracts and citations identified in initial electronic 30 January 2011
search. First selection of papers for complete review
Data extraction†                                                30 June 2012
Data analysis                                                   30 August  2012
Preparation of report for Panel of experts¶                     30 September   2012
Send  report to WCRF-AICR                                       30 September   2012
Transfer Endnote  files to WCRF                                 30 September   2012
Company    Name:    AMAZON
Contact  Name:      Megan  Wepfer
Phone   Number:     (248)628-2538
Card  Number:       5424180328865107
Expiration  Date:   03-03-2022       Type  Select:   Visa     Mastercard     AMEX
Card  Security  Code  [card verification value (CVV) – 3 digits on the back of card or if
AMEX,   4 digits on the front of card]: 874
Notes  you  would  like to include (a valid through date, a credit limit, a particular job or
trucking company,  materials, etc.):
NOME  DO ALUNO:   Monica Herz
CURSO:  Ciência da Computação 101     MATRÍCULA:   3900661
DISCIPLINA: Ciência da Computação                   CÓDIGO:  CS  101
SITUAÇÃO ANTERIOR – NOTA:      FREQÜÊNCIA:       ANO/PERÍODO:
JUSTIFICATIVA:
NOME  DO ALUNO:   Monica Herz
CURSO:  Ciência da Computação 101     MATRÍCULA:   3900661
DISCIPLINA: Ciência da Computação                   CÓDIGO:  CS  101
SITUAÇÃO ATUAL – NOTA:       FREQÜÊNCIA:       ANO/PERÍODO:
Passando por várias consultas médicas, é necessário
11/20/20                                       11/20/20
Autorizo, Em 11 / 16 / 20                     Alterado em 11 / 16 / 20
DIRETOR   (A) DA  ESCOLA                      SECRETÁRIO     (A) DA ESCOLA
University  of Nebraska   at Omaha
DigitalCommons@UNO
Information Systems and Quantitative Analysis                Department  of Information Systems and
Faculty Publications                                                           Quantitative Analysis
Credit  Card  Information
Card Type:    ☐  MasterCard         ☐ VISA         ☐ AMEX
Card Number:        5466307368374711
Cardholder  ZIP Code  (from credit card billing address):    85202
Monthly  Amount  $ 5000              (total annual membership investment / 12 months)
Signature                                                   Date
Program   Options                                                         Instructional
Delivery/Components
For students  with “less than reasonable  fluency” (i.e., overall                  ELD
CELDT   level of Beginning  or Early Intermediate)                                 SDAIE
    Instructional support using  the student’s primary  language
English  Language    Mainstream    (ELM)
    Instruction is overwhelmingly  in English
For students  with “reasonable  fluency” (i.e., overall CELDT level of             ELD
Alternative  Programs
    Instruction is in the student’s primary language  and  in
    SDAIE
Required  Criteria                    Newman   Crows   Landing  Unified School  District
(California Education  Code  Section  313[d])
Overall Performance  Level is Early Advanced or
English Language  Proficiency Assessment   (CELDT)     Advanced  including Domains
California Standards Test (English Language  Arts)     350 or above
California Standards Test (Mathematics)                350 or above
Parental Opinion and Consultation
Student Academic  Performance,  No  Grade Lower
Teacher  Evaluation                                    than a “C”
Optional: Other district multiple measures
DE     SANIDADE               FÍSICA        –   ESAFI        –   CADETE            PMPR         –   2020
Candidato     (a)   Miguel    Pryor                                                          , RG       27.777.891.8
- Refração:          OD    25                                              OE    22
- Acuidade      visual   sem    correção      (utilizando-se      da  tabela   optométrica       de   Snellen):
OD:   03           / 03           OE:   05           / 05           Binocular:     03          / 01
- Biomicroscopia:
OD:   (   ) Normal    (  ) Alterado
- Fundoscopia:
OD:   (   ) Normal    (  ) Alterado
OE:   (   ) Normal    (  ) Alterado
- Teste   de   estereopsia      / visão   de   profundidade:       (   ) Normal    (   ) Alterado:
- Tonometria:       OD:    33                        mmHg       OE:   22                       mmHg
- Motilidade     Ocular:
Binocular:    (   ) Normal    (  ) Alterado:
Local,  data:   Rio   de   Janeiro                 ,  03   / 03    / 2020
IDENTIFICAÇÃO    DO  PACIENTE
Nome:  Thomas   Leitz                              Leito: 16
ETIQUETA
Prontuário: 652478       Registro:                    Idade: 60 anos
Data: 02 / 12 / 20  Médico:  juan zeballos
consequência  desta minha  decisão.
Grau de parentesco:  Brother                   Documento   de identidade: 03087750409
Prefix           First Name                                         Last Name
Current Degree(s)                           Email
3. Applicant  Signature
Signature                                                             Date
4. Mentor/Supervisor    Signature
IASP Membership    ID (If applicable)                    Email
RAI                           Moves                            RAI                          Moves
BESP1                         1                                ESPj1                        3–2
BESP2                         1–3                              ESPj2                        1–3
BESP3                         3                                ESPj3                        1–2–3–1–2–3–2–1
BESP4                         1–3                              ESPj4                        1–2–3
BESP5                         1–3–1–2–3                        ESPj5                        1–2–1–3
BESP6                         1–3                              ESPj6                        1–2–3
BESP9                         1–2                              ESPj9                        1–2–1–2–1–2–1–2–1–3–1–2–3
Nº DE PROTOCOLO FORNECIDO PELA CENTRAL DE ATENDIMENTO
TITULAR DO PLANO                                                                                                         PLANO
Thomas    Leitz                                                                                                          apólice de seguro de saúde 2019
92584560410                                     36.587.854-6                                623816232
ENDEREÇO                                                                                                                     NÚMERO
BAIRRO                                                           CIDADE                                 UF       CEP
011   55  61  99236-9548            18-  3902-3500                       thomas@leitz.ca
DADOS    BANCÁRIOS     DO  TITULAR   DO   PLANO   PARA   REEMBOLSO
BANCO                                          AGÊNCIA                     Nº DA CONTA                      TIPO DE CONTA
Banco    do  Brasil                                                        0009795493                          CORRENTE      POUPANÇA
Elinton   André    Chiaradia                                                                        45086710987
TERMO    DE  CIÊNCIA                                                               PROTOCOLO     DE  RECEBIMENTO
e dos   dados    bancários    informados      nesta   solicitação.                            CORREIO              PESSOAL
Jonas    Gonçalves
Barueri,   Brazil              01/01/2019
Name   (First, Last)                                                        School                         Grade
Child DOB
Address
Parent  name                                                            Phone   number
Cell Phone  Carrier                                   OK to text                          Parent  DOB
Total household   net income*                                     How   many   members    in household?
assistance, unemployment   insurance, child/spousal support, pension/retirement and other sources of income combined).
Fee        Scholarship
Volleyball, Flag Football, Cross Country 9/23-10/31/2019        $65             $20
Winter Sports:
6th Grade Basketball            11/4-12/19/2019                 $65             $20
Registration deadline: Oct. 30, 2019
7th & 8thGrade Boys Basketball  1/13-2/20/2020                  $65             $20
Registration deadline: Jan. 9, 2020
7th & 8thGrade Girls Basketball 2/24-4/9/2020                   $65             $20
Registration deadline: Feb 19, 2020
Track & Field                   4/13-5/21/2020                  $65             $20
Registration deadline: April 8, 2020
Data de nascimento:   03 / 03 / 1994     Sexo: ( ) feminino ( ) masculino
CPF:   03087750409                       Id funcional: 88754564
Cidade de  moradia: Recife                 Cidade  de trabalho: Recife
Coleta   de  PCR   prévia?    (  ) sim    Data   da  coleta:        /     /                  (  )não
Resultado     do  PCR:   (  ) positivo    CV:                          (   ) negativo
Resultado     do  Teste   rápido    de  anticorpos
Método:     (  ) capilar   (  )venoso     ( )plasma     (  )soro
Resultado:          (   )POSITIVO
(   )NEGATIVO
E LEMENT                                                            Q UESTIONS U SED FOR A SSESSMENT
2. Location                              Where  is the pain? Is it local to the incisional site, referred, or elsewhere?
4. Intensity                             How  severe is the pain? (See Table 1)
5. Aggravating  and  relieving           What  makes  the  pain better or worse?
factors
7. Effect                                How  does  the pain affect physical function, emotional  distress, and sleep?
8. Barriers to pain assessment           What  factors might  affect accuracy or reliability of pain assessments128 (eg, cultural or language barriers,
cognitive barriers, misconceptions  about  interventions)?
The   Philosophy        and   History
Not Just Manipulative Medicine
Morte  Natural                      Invalidez por Acidente                          Diárias de Incapacidade Temporária               Despesas  Médicas  Hospitalares e Odontológicas
Morte  por Acidente                 Invalidez por Doença                             Diárias de Internação Hospitalar                 Outros:
Av.            Vargas,            -
Endereço:     Getúlio              1454     Assis                                               Nº         Complemento:
Bairro:                                        Cidade: BrasilIjuí                               UF: RS    Cep: 98700-000       Tel:(   )
P  r o t e  c t i n  g ,   M   a i n  t a i n  i n g    a n  d   I m   p r o  v i n  g   t h  e   H  e  a l t h   o  f   A  l l  M   i n n  e s o  t a  n s
PERÍODO DO AFASTAMENTO:                      N° DE DIAS DE AFASTAMENTO:
DATA DA ENTREGA DO ATESTADO:                 ÚLTIMO DIA DE TRABALHO:
NOME:                                                                            SIAPE:
CPF:
E-MAIL:
CAMPUS/UNIDADE   DE LOTAÇÃO:
TEL. RESIDENCIAL:                                     TEL. CELULAR:
CAMPO  PARA  OBSERVAÇÃO:
Please  complete  the information   below:
I this Randall is the Doyle place for full name authorize the Department of Fish and Wildlife to charge my credit
card account  indicated below  for this $500 is the amott on or after this 03 is 06 the 2020 date. This payment is for
(Description of Good/Services)
Billing Address  This 9222 is Sandra the billing Grace address Rd and its good Phone This (952) is where 313-2110 the phone x740 123
Account  Type        Visa           Mastercard           AMEX             Discover
Nome  do Enc. Educação:   Benjamim   Cordeiro  Costa  Junior
Nº de contribuinte   111.525.614-99                Telefone / Telemóvel  21- 2613-7848
Industrial                            Knowledge
Progress/                         Revolution                            Revolution
Outcomes
Biomedicine:  Low
Hanging  Fruit                           Divergence
Pre-Industrial
Paradigm
Industrial                    Connectivity
Practice                                              Paradigm                      Paradigm
Address:                     3904 Martagon Cir,Anchorage, AK, 99516, USA
Credit card  type:    Visa                        Expiration  date:     03   / 23
Mo      Yr
Account  number:      213627054
I will be paying for:           Banquet   Box Handling   Fees (Inbound   Only)
Banquet   Box Handling   Fees (Outbound    Only)
Phone:            607-240-6266             Cell:          607-240-6299
Number   of packages   being shipped  in:           5
Address:                     3904 Martagon Cir,Anchorage, AK, 99516, USA
Mo      Yr
Account  number:      213627054
I will be paying for:           Banquet   Box Handling   Fees (Inbound   Only)
Banquet   Box Handling   Fees (Outbound    Only)
Cardholder’s  name:   Joleen Bauch
(Please print or type name as it appears on card)
Number   of packages   being shipped  in:           5
SHIPPING  INFORMATION   & CHARGES   / DELIVERY  TO  BANQUET   ROOM
box, per transport  (heavy  or oversized may  increase  price). Pallets/crates at $100  per  100lbs with  a 200  lb
5pm  Monday   through  Friday, all boxes must  be labeled and  ready by 4pm   for same day  service.
Medical  University Graz,  Austria
Home    Phone:        (231)947-6921                                Alternate  Phone:          N/A
Spouse     and   Dependant       Information
Spouse’s    Name:          Perry                                                         Timothy
Last                                                        First
Date  of Birth:          23/05/1984                                     Date  of Marriage:        12/4/2014
Names    of Dependant     Children:                                                              Dates   of Birth:
Brian Usher                                                                                     11/01/1967
Address:          8520 W Redwing Dr
Street Address                                                                                          Apartment/Unit  #
City                                                                                  State             ZIP Code
palbociclib        (Ibrance)                                                              Day-long  mock-interviews
clinicians in six citiesto          with health  plan officials to
Nov  2011:  Review  of early     to consider (and possibly           acceptability of pricing and   Feb 2015: US  FDA  approved
commercial   decision for        treatments  to which                requirements                   postmenopausal    women
clincial                 Ibrance's price would  be                                          with           receptor-
further         trials                                                              \                    estrogen
Dec        Phase  II clinical
2009:                                               prices between  US$9  000       revenue  at prices between         with no prior endocrine-
and US$12  000                  US$9  000 and  US$12  000          based therapy
|                                                                   |                               1                          I
2011                       2012                       2013                       2014                       2015
Oct 2013: Phase  III trial
Pharmaceutical   firm                         commenced
for the final price
Dec  2012: Results from                                            (USS$9 850) with final
Phase  II clinical trial was    Survey >80  health plan            consideration  to the
reviewed                        officials to understand any        benchmark   price of Afinitor
on for medicine  monthly
REQUERIMENTO          DE  ADESÃO      DO   SERVIDOR      À
ASSISTÊNCIA        À  SAÚDE     IPSEMG
Nome:                                                           MASP   / Registro Funcional:
652417895                         083844904-22                         44.198.849.0
Av. Borges  de Medeiros, 1501 - Centro Historico
Bairro:                                                            Telefone Residencial:
90020-020          +559832494938
Cidade:                                             Estado:        Telefone Celular:
LEIA ATENTAMENTE   AS INFORMAÇÕES   DESTE  FORMULÁRIO  ANTES  DE FAZER A SUA OPÇÃO
Venho:        ADERIR  à Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG
JÁ POSSUO   Assistência à Saúde do IPSEMG   e desejo continuar
NÃO  ADERIR   a Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG
Atenção:  caso tenha  mais  de um  vínculo  com  o Estado,  o desconto  será feito automaticamente
Intervention       Intervention     Control Events      Control group
Denominators:
persons
No. deaths from
cancer recurrence*
primary cancer
Last
name:  Clarke
First name: Michael
Date of birth (MM/DD/YYYY):    06/14/1989                  SEVIS ID: 948615
Job start date: 12/4/2020                           Job end date (if applicable): present
95-2549734                                             full
Employer  EIN (tax ID #):                                  Full-time/part-time:    time
Supervisor first name: Patricia
Supervisor last name: White
Material                   Minimum    Thickness                         Advantages.                             Disadvantages:
Slainiess Steel                 0.01 in, (0.25 mm}               Extremely  durable,  non-staining           Difficult to sokder and form,
hagh cost
Celd  Rolled Copper               10 ogi?   (3100 gim*)                    Extremely   durable                 May  stain adjacent  masonry,
high cost
EPDM                         30 mils (0.8 mm)                     Flexible, easy  to form,                     Metal  drip edge
easy  to jom, non-staining                    may  be required
Rubberized   Asphalt                30 mils (0.8 mm)                      Seif-healing, flexible,                  Degrades   in LUV light,
aasy  to form, easy  to join,              dimensional   instability,
non-staining                     incompatible  with sealants,
metal  drip edge  required
PYC                         30 mils (0.8 mm)                     Flexible, easy  to form,                      ‘Questionable
low cast                                easily tom,
Galvanized   Steel               6.045  in. (0.38 mm)                        Non-staining                           Difficult te solder,
subject  to early
Unidade de Atendimento: 4818
Company:
Phone  #:
Card Type  (Check One): AMEX        VISA      MASTERCARD
Card Number:
Use  For All Projects:  Yes
Billing Address:
Phone  #:
Card Number:
Expiration Date:     /       Security Code:
Use  For All Projects:  Yes
a)   personal data  resulting from specific technical processing  relating to the physical,
data
a)   personal data  related to the physical or mental health of a natural person,  including the
provision of health care services, which  reveal information about  his or her health status
7)   Genetic  data:
a)   personal data  relating to the inherited or acquired genetic characteristics of a natural
person  which give unique  information  about the physiology  or the health of that natural
natural person in question
8)   Pseudonymisation:
attributed to a specific data subject without the use of additional information, provided
that such additional information is kept separately and  is subject to technical and
organizational measures   to ensure  that the personal data  are not attributed to an
identified or identifiable natural person
Tel: (11) 3188-4265
Av. Brigadeiro Luís Antônio, 278 - CEP 01318-901 - São Paulo/SP
HORÁRIO   DE  CHEGADA:     04:00 PACIENTE.ASSOCIAÇÃO am                                    HORÁRIO    DE SAÍDA:   08:00   am
O(A) SR(A).    Geraldo      Coen
R.G.  43.524.045-6                                 COMPARECEU     A ESTE  SERVIÇO   DE SAÚDE   PARA:
(  ) CONSULTA
(  ) ACOMPANHAR     FAMILIAR
(  ) MARCAR   / FAZER  / RETIRAR   EXAME
(  ) FISIOTERAPIA
(  ) INTERNAÇÃO    HOSPITALAR    DE            /          /               A           /          /
(  ) CIRURGIA  AMBULATORIAL      EM            /         /
(  ) OUTROS
(  ) NADA  APRESENTA     QUE  IMPOSSIBILITE   SEU  RETORNO    AO TRABALHO
(  ) DEVERÁ   PERMANECER     EM  REPOUSO    NO  PERÍODO   DA  MANHÃ
(  ) DEVERÁ   PERMANECER     EM  REPOUSO    NO  DIA DE HOJE
(  ) DEVERÁ   PERMANECER     EM  REPOUSO    POR                 (                                       ) DIAS
A APOSIÇÃO     DO  CID (CÓDIGO   INTERNACIONAL      DE  DOENÇAS)    NESTE   DOCUMENTO      DEVERÁ    NECESSARIAMENTE       TER   CIÊNCIA  E
FORMAL    CONCORDÂNCIA      DO
DE  MEDICINA    (CRM).
LOCAL   E DATA:
PREENCHIDO  E ASSINADO POR UM MÉDICO DEVIDAMENTE INSCRITO NO CONSELHO REGIONAL
DE MEDICINA (CRM).
LOCAL E DATA:                     Vitoria                        , 05  de 02                  de 2018
ASSINATURA E CARIMBO COM CRM DO MÉDICO:
TELEFONE: +5598981517978
SEGURO        DE   VIDA
NOME      DO   ALUNO:                Arthur   Pesquisa
04/03/1995
DATA     DE   NASCIMENTO:             /           /                 ESTADO      CIVIL:    solteiro
BAIRRO:                                                                             CEP:   20271-204
MODALIDADE:           ( ) INTEGRADO           ( ) SUBSEQUENTE             ( ) PROEJA      ( ) EDUCAÇÃO         SUPERIOR
ANO:      2010                TURNO:       (  ) MATUTINO          ( ) VESPERTINO          ( ) NOTURNO
(Attorney’s name)                                                                      (Name of the trust)
No. Assigned   (to each
arm)
Percentage   Non-White
compliant  (failed to
complete  the
No. Analysed   for
outcome   measure
cause  mortality
•  Quality of life
•  Side  effects
Add  this card to my account as the primary card to be charged  for all orders.
Cancel my  open  credit amount and  add this card to my account as the primary  card to be
charged  for all orders.
Remove   the credit card on file and replace with this card.
(Cardholder’s Name)
03  01 2020
Authorized Account  Holder Signature (required)          Date (required)
Name  as it appears on credit card: Chuck Frami                                          _
Credit card number:       4539559311618240                        CCV#  655               _
Expiration date of credit card: 03 09 2020
Submission Date
Contact Name
Submission Topic
Dates or deadlines associated with submission
Are there attachments associated with this submission?      Yes        No
Are there URL links associated with this submission?        Yes        No
Nome   do  usuário
No da matrícula   do usuário              Data  da solicitação        E-mail
Cidade                          UF        CEP                         DDD     Telefone   (preenchimento obrigatório)
Boa Vista            RR        6 9 3 0  5 - 6 7 0                   (98) 98910-3540
Residencial
Quantidade    de recibos  entregues       Valor
CONSULTA
TOTAL
School Building:      Rouge            High
Device Serial Number: 558794
Device Wi-Fi MAC Address: F0:B0:52:36:61:70
ENDEREÇO
NÚMERO              COMPLEMENTO         BAIRRO
MUNICÍPIO                                                                   UF     CEP
PROCESSO
NOTA
NO ESPAÇO ABAIXO, FAÇA UM  MAPA
ESCOLAS,    SUPERMERCADOS,
HOSPITAIS ETC.
Título    do  Projeto:   análise  de imagem
Pesquisador       para   contato/    fone:    +55 98 99608-4062
based          Initial discount                     Yes                   Yes            Yes – provincial level   340B  program,  VA,
Medicaid
outcome        Price-volume                         Yes                   Yes                     No                       No
agreements
Conditional  coverage                Yes                   Yes                     Yes                      No
(clinical not cost-    (clinical not cost-    (clinical not cost-       (very limited)
based                                          effectiveness)        effectiveness)         effectiveness)
Performance-linked                   Yes                   No                      No                       No
pricing
To be completed   by student: UMID  #                                 Uniqname
Degree  Level:    Bachelor’s    Master’s     Doctoral     Other      Major Field of Study:
Estimated   completion  date  :                            (term and year)
Reason   for delay (check all that apply):
    Change   in research  topics
    Unexpected    research  problems
explanation of what constitutes acceptable academic reasons for extension):
If none of these  apply, please  contact an  International Student  and  Scholar  Advisor  at the International Center  at 734-764-9310.
As  the Academic/Faculty      Advisor   or Student   Services   staff member,   I certify that the student   is eligible to continue   his/her
Name                                            Title                                      Date
Luiz F. C da Silva
Título Profissional:                                    Nº Registro  Nacional:
Identidade:                               RS
Órgão  expedidor:            Escolha aqui a UF
(Utilizar apenas números)                           (Utilizar o padrão 00/00/0000)
053697644-92                                        02/05/1972
Endereço   completo  (residencial):
90020-020
Telefone  com  Whatsapp:                            Telefone  adicional:
+55  98 99608-4062
lfcs@centroin.com.br
Nome  do paciente: Andre  Jakurski                                                   CPF: 053697644-92
Número  da carteirinha: 704 2012  0546   8582                    E-mail: ajakurski@jgp.com.br
Telefone de contato com DDD: +55  98 99608-4062                 Telefone celular com DDD: -
Banco: Banco    do Brasil                             Agência: -             Número  da conta: 26224-2
Guidance         for   Industry
Publications on Risk Information for
Approved   Prescription Drugs and
Biological Products—Recommended
Practices
Infection Practically in every country, the cost of healthcare is increasing more rapidly than  the readiness
processes   in the form  of Electronic  Health  Records  (EHR),  health  insurance  claims, medical   imaging
databases,  disease  registries, spontaneous  reporting sites, and clinical trials. As a result, data mining has
sources  of data to academic   researchers,  and 2) limited access  to data-mining  experts  [6]. But, still the
Although  several countries have  taken  firm steps in providing aid services, the reach of those services  to
the poor, still remains as a  difficulty. In different dimensions, un-imaginable  services like separation  of
dual births, discovery  of latest medicines  for deadly diseases  are  happening.  However,   a few  cases  of
death  occur  due to   poor  clinical diagnosing system   and inadequate   treatment.  Most  of the time, the
clinical selections are created by  the doctor’s experience  and  skill. Hospitals do have info systems,  call
Support  Systems,  Image  and  Scan  process systems.  However,  all hospitals do not have  these facilities or
their applications are restricted.
tenet for higher clinical cognitive process. The primary initiative is that the prospective costs and effects of
diagnosis  can be  measured   and  used  to enhance   the task. Furthermore,   the transitional enquiry steps
be  computed   in terms  of  cost and  effect. Based  on  these  cost  and  effect, the system  can  learn  to
encountered   by the  aid organizations  (hospitals, medical centers). Valuable  quality service denotes  the
and/or  call support systems  will aid in achieving clinical tests at a reduced value. Due to the accessibility
of integrated  info through  huge  patient  repositories, there is a  swing  within the insight of clinicians,
Claim Number:                                                    Member   ID #:
Provider Name:                                                   Billed Charges ($):               Contact Person:
Based upon  the following reason(s), we are requesting reconsideration of this claim.
Provider: Please check applicable reason(s) and attach all supporting documentation.
☐        Member:   Processed under incorrect member                 ☐      Provider: Processed under incorrect provider/tax ID number
☐        Coding/Bundling  Edits: Attach supporting documentation/   ☐      Timely  Filing: Attach claims & supporting documentation
medical records (Documentation is required)                       showing  claim was filed to Molina in a timely manner
Coordination  of Benefits Information:                              ☐      Payment   Amount:
Reason:
Attach reason Prior Authorization was not obtained for
service performed and attach medical records.              ☐      Service is not a duplicate – Explain the reasoning:
☐      Pre-Authorization  now  on file – #
For Internal Use Only:
Resolution:
Street Address                                              City                Zip Code
ER-2, Approved Secretary of State, May 2011
I, being  a registered voter at the address  listed below, do  hereby  declare  that I wish to affi liate with
the following   political party:
I, being a registered  voter at the address  listed below, do  hereby  declare  that I do not wish to be
affi liated with any political party.                             Unaffi liated (No  party preference)
ER-2, Approved Secretary of State, May 2011
Whose   Records  to be Disclosed
NAME   (First, Middle, Last, Suffix)
SSN                                 Birthday (MM/DD/YYYY)
THIS  BOX   TO  BE  COMPLETED      BY  SSA/DDS     (as needed).  Additional  information to identify the
health care facilities
administrators, counselors,  etc.)
• Consulting examiners   used  by SSA
• Employers,  insurance  companies,   workers'
compensation   programs
• Others who  may   know  about my  condition  (family,
neighbors,  friends, public officials)
WHOM              The  Social Security  Administration    and  to the State  agency   authorized  to process   my  case  (usually called "disability determination
claims, to the U.S. Department   of State Foreign  Service Post.]
PURPOSE              Determining   my  eligibility for benefits, including looking at the combined  effect of any impairments   that by themselves  would  not meet  SSA's
Determining   whether  I am capable   of managing    benefits  ONLY   (check  only if this applies)
• I may write to SSA  and my  sources  to revoke  this authorization at any time (see page  2 for details).
Eu,  Ana  Cristina Reif de Paula                                                       ,
autorizo a American   Airlines a efetuar a cobrança no valor de R$ 50000      em  meu
cartão de crédito, conforme dados  abaixo:
Bandeira
Nome   grafado  no cartão   Ana Cristina Reif de Paula
Forma   de Pagamento*:
Código  localizador da reserva  -
Arthur Pesquisa
Rafael  Barbastefano
Telefone  para  contato  com  DDD:   +5598988578047
E-mail  para contato: arthur.pesquisa@gmail.com
IMPORTANTE:Essa       autorização somente será válida quando apresentada junto a cópia LEGÍVEL do RG (carteira de
identidade) do títular do cartão.
Campos    a serem  preenchidos  pela  American   Airlines:
Account  Number: 01  2320  210 1  005
CVS  Code  (3 digit # on signature line on back of credit card): 545
Authorized Signature (sign):
Print the Signature Name:  Timothy  Perry
Amount  Authorized: US  $ 12000
Today’s Date:
Phone  #: (989)728-9711
Credit Card Statement  Address:
8520  W  Redwing   Dr  Franklin WI 53132
In Payment  of:
SOLICITAÇÃO       DO  CREDENCIAMENTO          75  – BARES    E RESTAURANTES
CONTRIBUINTE  (RAZÃO SOCIAL)                           INSCRIÇÃO ESTADUAL  CNPJ
CIDADE                                             CEP                    TELEFONE
e-mail                                                      Nº DA CNAE PRINCIPAL REGIME DE RECOLHIMENTO
Vem  requerer da Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado de Pernambuco o credenciamento
SINGLE-AGENT       THERAPY
Tetracycline         • In combination   with    Tetra: 10   Tetra: 250 mg/kg           Tetra: 5 mg/kg           • Age  less than               • Used only  in combination
in areas with quinine                                                                                                     quinine.
reduce  likelihood of                2 times per day  for       twice per day
quinine-associated                   7 days.                    for 7 days.
side-effects by
quinine  treatment.                  doxy  per day.             doxy per day  up to
• Prophylaxis.                                                    100 mg.
Clindamycin          • For patients unable      3           300  mg  4 times per       20 to 40 mg/kg/day       • Severe  hepatic              • Is not as effective as
to take tetracycline.                day for 5 days.            divided in 3 daily         or renal                       tetracycline, especially
• In combination   with                                           doses for 5 days.          impairment.                    among   non-immune
quinine, can increase                                                                    • History of                     patients.
in areas with quinine                                                                      disease,                       with a rapidly acting
resistance and/or                                                                          especially                     schizonticide such as
quinine-associated
side effects by
reducing  duration  of
quinine  treatment.
Atovaquone/          • Treatment   of           Atv: 59     1000  mg  atovaquone       No pediatric formula-                      35.00        • Fixed dose combination.
proguanil              multidrug  resistant                 +  400 mg  proguanil       tion currently available,                               • Reportedly  safe in
P. falciparum            Prog: 24    daily for 3 days.          but for patients                                          pregnancy  and  young
Trade name:            infections.                                                     between  11  and 40 kg                                    children.
Malarone                                                                               body weight:                                            • Drug donation  program
exists
21–30  kg: 1/ 2 adult dose                                development.
P. falciparum                        2 mg/kg   daily for        2 mg/kg  daily for                                        especially for use in first
infections.                          total of 5 to 7 days.      total of 5 to 7 days.                                     trimester (available data
compounds                                                                                                                                        suggest relative safety for
day followed  by 10        day followed  by                                        • Other artemisinin
Artemisinin                                                 mg/kg   daily for          10 mg/kg  daily for                                       derivatives include
total of 5 to 7 days.      total of 5 to 7 days.                                     arteether, dihydro-
Artemether                                 4–11        4 mg/kg   on the first     4 mg/kg  on the first                      3.60–4.80
day followed  by           day followed  by
2 mg/kg   daily for        2 mg/kg  daily for
Primaquine           • Treatment   of P. vivax  6           • 14 mg  base  per day     • 0.3 mg  (base)/kg      • G6PD                         • Primaquine  has  also been
infections (reduce                     for 14 days.               daily for 14 days.       deficiency.                    investigated for prophy-
likelihood of relapse).              • 45 mg  once  per                                  • Pregnancy.                     laxis use.
• Gametocytocidal                        week  for 8 weeks.                                                               • Shorter courses have  been
Description
ESS  is an 8-item self report questionnaire used  to assess subjective sleepiness (score range:
ISI is a 7-item rating used to assess the patient’s perception of insomnia.
BDI  (or BDI-II) is a 21-item self report inventory used to measure depression  (minimal  or no
depression: BDI  <10;  moderate  to severe: BDI  >18).
STAI  is a 20-item self report inventory used to measure  anxiety (score range: 20-80;
order (range from  0 (poorest) to 100 (well-being).
DBAS    is a self-rating of 28 statements that is used to assess negative cognitions about sleep.
REVIEW    INFORMATION
Provider name:                                           Tax  ID number:                       NPI:
Drug Name   (Brand Name)                     Biomarker(s)                     Indication(s)
121      Protriptyline (Vivactil®)                    CYP2D6                           Depression
122      Risperidone                                  CYP2D6                           Schizophrenia, bipolar mania,
124      Trimipramine (Surmontil®)                    CYP2D6;   CYP2C19                Depression
Rheumatology
126      Azathioprine (Imuran®)                       TPMT                             Rheumatoid  arthritis, organ
128      Pegloticase (Krystexxa®)                     G6PD                             Uric acid management,  gout
Transplantation
131      Tacrolimus                                   CYP3A5                           Organ  transplant
Urology
12/26/1982
(cid:10)(cid:19)(cid:10)(cid:13)(cid:10)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18) (cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:2)(cid:6)(cid:3)(cid:2)(cid:7)(cid:10)(cid:6)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:13)(cid:10)(cid:8)(cid:10)(cid:4)(cid:16)(cid:13)(cid:10)(cid:5)(cid:19)
(cid:18)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:19)(cid:16)(cid:13)(cid:24)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:7)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:10)(cid:13)(cid:17)(cid:3)
26/05/2015                                                                                                                                                       135/70                                                          96°F                                            70
9:30am                                       83.3kg                                                                                                                                                                                                   30
MASONRY
BOND  BEAM
JOIST HANGER:
FLOOR JOIST,
0 . 0683486         0 . 0184629                                         +  0 . 0882686         0 . 018821
Email   ajakurski@jgp.com.br                        TELEFONE:       ( +55 ) 98 99608-4062
MUNICÍPIO:       Assis Brasil
80
70            69
60                                                                                                                                                Surgery alone
50                                                                                                                                                Surgery + chemo
30                                                                                                         28
Chemo  and/or RT
20                              17                                                                                                                No surgery, RT, or chemo
5                                                                          5
1        2
give permission for 21c Museum   Hotel to charge                 AMERICAN   EXPRESS       DISCOVER
my  credit card for charges below.                            213627077
ACCOUNT  NUMBER
03 01 2025
03  01 2020
Jacob   Crona                                                    03  02 2020
EXACT DEPARTURE DATE
$500
03 06 2020
Peso  do bebê  quando  ele(a) nasceu?  6 libras
Houve   algum  problema   significante durante a gravidez  ou o nascimento   da sua criança?
Não  foram encontrados problemas significativos
Seu  filho(a) foi prematuro(a)?   SIM  NÃO
Não
Durante  a internação  hospitalar após o nascimento   da sua criança, seu bebê  teve algum  problema
médico?   Ocorreu um problema, que foi resolvido posteriormente.
Chairman   of the Board of Health                         May 6, 2020
One   Kit
Qty                   Kit Part Number                         +                        Service
Service
LTE910PS  Premium   Kit v1.00  TBUVS100      $825.00      *100  Minutes per Month – No 911 Service
One  Kit
Service
Print Name:                                                         Title:
Signature:                                                          Date:
COMPLICAÇÕES:
1. AVC  (derrame)
4.Lesão  vascular com  necessidade   de correção  por cirurgia local e necessidade de  eventual transfusão
5. Formação   de pseudo-aneurisma
6. Reflexo Vaso-vagal
7. Infecções
antibióticos e anti-inflamatórios
10. Dor precordial
11. Sangramento
CBHPM    – 4.08.12.02-2 / 4.08.12.03-0          CID – I70.9.
Assinatura    do(a)  médico(a)
CRM:         41326                                    UF:
Nome:        Ana Cristina Reif de Paula
Viçosa - MG                                 Formulário            de     Reembolso               Odontológico
Geraldo    Coen                                                                                                                03855792
Data da Realização                                      Descrição dos procedimentos  realizados                                    Dente / Região     Face       Quantidade        Valor Cobrado
04/03/2011            Preenchimentos, canais radiculares e extrações.                                                               Implantologia   extrações   3000            3000
TABLE      4
1d  im, (240 mm)   brick cavity  wall (sotid brick), 3 in (50  mm}   air space,                                            2
walls filed  solid af combustiole   framing   membors
10m,   (250  mm)   brick: easily weil ie     Sricke), 2 in (80 mm}   air space:
9 in  (280  mmm)  solid brick and  concrete   binck,  1 in (38 mm)   air  space,
TELEFONE: (92) 3671-6756             E-MAIL: sen.rogeriocarvalho@senado.leg.br @
CIDADE: São Paulo                  ESTADO: SP
CARTÃO: Master Card                     Nº: 5523170000276020
VALOR: R$ 70000          (                                                  )
NUMERO  DE PARCELAS:        02
I                                                       authorize The  Consulate General  of Bolivia in Los
Angeles, California to charge my  credit card for $               US  dollars which is required as payment
for:
Visa Application           Legalization             Other
Cardholder    Name:
CVV2   (last three digits in the signature area for VISA/MC or Discovery; four digits on front the card for AMEX):
Phone   number:                                          Email
Matrícula  SIAPE                   CPF                                 Situação funcional
Ativo Permanente     Cedido          Regime CLT
-                                  077.248.648-45                                Pensionista          Requisitado
Aposentado           Nomeado  p/ cargo comissionado
Matrícula  SIAPE                   CPF                                 Situação funcional
Ativo Permanente     Cedido          Regime CLT
> Este formulário, preenchido e assinado  (original);
> Contrato  completo do  plano de saúde, onde  o requerente seja o titular;
> RG  e CPF. ( Títular e dependente - se houver);
estável);
> Carteiras do Plano de Saúde.
Anualmente:
Wirth                                            Bronx High School of Science
Mathematics                  Reasonable   fluency
English Language  Proficiency Levels                              Program  Placement
Early Advanced                 Reasonable   fluency***                  or an Alternative Program
Intermediate                                                   with an approved  Parental Exception  Waiver
with an approved  Parental Exception  Waiver
NOME  DO SEGURADO                                       CPF/CNPJ                                TELEFONE
R.  Manoel   Joaquim    Garcia,   1050  - Centro
CIDADE                      CEP                         Nº DA APÓLICE             SEGURADORA
Itaí - SP                   18730-000                   28642                      Seguro   de  vida
DATA DO SINISTRO   HORA DO OCORRIDO  HOUVE BOLETIM DE OCORRÊNCIA?     E-MAIL
08/05/2019        08/05/2019                SIM           NÃO         albuquerque1955@uol.com.br
NOME  DO CONDUTOR DO VEÍCULO SEGURADO         ASSUME A RESPONSABILIDADE NO ACIDENTE? NOME E TELEFONE DO TERCEIRO (Se Houver)
ANA  PAULA   SILVA  DOS  SANTOS                        SIM                 NÃO     (11) 4722-1149
RELAÇÃO  DE DOCUMENTOS    OBRIGATÓRIOS  ( OUTROS DOCUMENTOS    PODERÃO   SER SOLICITADOS  NO DECORRER   DO PROCESSO)
DUT  (Documento  de porte obrigatório - Legível)
FOTOS  DO MOMENTO    DO ACIDENTE  (Se houver)
BILLING   ADDRESS    AS  IT APPEARS   ON  MY  CREDIT    CARD   STATEMENT
Street Address:  22425 Birchwood Loop Rd
City, State, Zip Code: Chugiak, AK, 99567, USA
Country: USA
Phone Number:     206-253-5832
1) Assessment   of outcome  (we added  point b because  interventions like physical activity and
b) independent  not-blinded assessment  (for exposures  that can’t be masked)  *
d) self report
2) Was  follow-up  long enough  for outcomes  to occur
a) yes (more than two  years) *
3) Adequacy   of follow up of cohorts
b) subjects lost to follow up unlikely to introduce bias - small number lost (less than 10
description provided  of those lost) *
d) no statement
We  will exclude from  the assessment::
1) Representativeness  of the exposed cohort
a) truly representative of the average                     (describe) in the community  *
Variable                                                             Mean  (SD)      N
Do you have  substantial previous experience in mentoring?         3.68 (1.02)     28
Procedure          U.S      Insurers  U.S.     Retail  India            Thailand         Singapore
Cost               Cost
IIT ID#:                                                           SEVIS ID#:
IIT Email:                                                         Phone  #:
Student  Signature:                                                                      Date:
Advisor  Signature:                                                                      Date:
Advisor  Name   (Printed):                                                      Phone   Extension:
setpoints?                                     NO            If yes, what setpoints?
Network      Connection
Fill In Applicable Fields Only
BACnet  MSTP                                         Address          (Number can be 0-99)
Lontalk                                   Network  #
Bairro:                                              Cidade:                                             Estado:
Cep:                                 Fone:                                      Cel.:
Registro  de  título de especialista profissional  farmacêutico    (concurso   de título)
Registro  de  título de mestre  e doutor
Registro de habilitação para atuar como responsável técnico ou farmacêutico substituto em homeopatia por comprovação curricular na graduação
Registro de habilitação em floralterapia, ozonioterapia, perfusão sanguínea, radiofarmácia, saúde estética, serviço de vacinação ou preparo dos
antineoplásicos e demais medicamentos na oncologia por comprovação de experiência
    Autorização    para prescrição   farmacêutica   conforme   Resolução    CFF   nº 586/2013
HOMIMAL   1M. (25 mm)
AIR SPACE
MINIMUM                               |
FEIN     LE Se       heer
eA            SA
OFFA      A  re  aes   FFA
AIRS       ™—                                                         SoG,       REAR  cuean-our   gon
FOR  BAFFLE  CHAMBER:
1
Le           FALLS       EI   EE   NEOPA           |
SHOWIN  WoiTH
REFRACTORY    GONGAETE   SLAB  ——                                                                           METAL  TIES.
——   NOMINAL AIR SPAGE IN. mim
L  .        T        T       ¥        «    ihee*
ee         ee  ee                  ee           eee    oe
REINFORGED                   : Ea   ee)                                                  es
Please circle:  HSA  /FSA      Visa     MasterCard       Discover     AMEX
Credit Card Number       5416300029979672
Exp  Date  03-03-2020            3-Digit Security Code 786
on the balance  on the account for                    Keith Fogarty
Name of Patient
Authorized Signature                                      Date 03-03-2018
Student  First Name:                                     Student Last  Name:
Student’s  Official Class:                    Name   of School:
Date:
Jurisdiction   Timing                             Price reduction  level
Australia      Number   of years from first listing
• 5 years                           • 5%
• 10 years                          • 10%
• 15 years                          • 5%
Loss of exclusivity:
One-off  price reduction:
• Entry of first generic product    • 43.64%  or 51.52% depending  on  reimbursement
category
One-off  price reduction
• April 2012                        • 1.95% reduction for all products or on products of
the manufacturers’ choice with equivalent saving
France         Loss of exclusivity
Non-biologic  products:
• 18 months  after first generic   • 12.5%  (original); 7% (generic)
• Upon  LoE                        • 35%
Date:  05/09/2018                    SSN:  619-37-6648
Street Address:  42 W 75th St New York, NY 10023
Mailing  Address:  same as above
Phone#:  (231)853-2261                     Case  Assistance?  Y  or N
Date of Birth: 08/04/1971          Race:  White
Sex:  Male  or Female              Monthly  Income:  $50000
Emergency   Contact:  Brian Anderson
Referral Source:  Brian Anderson
Reason  for Referral: None
*Product  Flavor:  -
*Professor  responsável:
Arthur Pesquisa
E-mail  professor:
arthur.pesquisa@gmail.com
+5598988578047
*Título  do projeto:
WMR
*Nome    (s) do (s) aluno  (s) participante  (s):
E-mail  contato  aluno:
barbastefano@gmail.com
08/08/2020
Materiais  e equipamentos     utilizados:
Data:  05    /  02   / 2018
Assinatura   do Professor   Responsável:
Assinatura   do Técnico   Responsável:
*Professor  responsável:
Arthur Pesquisa
E-mail  professor:
Contato  telefônico  professor:
+5598988578047
*Título  do projeto:
*Nível  do  projeto (IC,  PM,  Mestrado,   etc.):
*Nome    (s) do (s) aluno  (s) participante  (s):
Rafael  Barbastefano
011 55 98 98112-7250
E-mail  contato  aluno:
02/08/2017
Materiais  e equipamentos     utilizados:
*Preenchimento      Obrigatório
Assinatura   do Técnico   Responsável:
Name   on Card:          Scott Pinheiro
Billing Address:         571 Spring St Newport RI 02840 USA
Credit Card Number:      4843760100556341
Amount  to Charge:  $  2000                    Frequency:     Monthly     Annually
Print Name:                Scott Pinheiro
Or
Your bank’s routing number
You  can find your account and routing numbers  when  you sign in to chase.com:
• Select the “Account & routing number  PDF” from the “Things you can do” menu.
I authorize                                                                                        (name  of business)
and my  bank  to automatically deposit my paycheck  into my account  listed above (this includes my authorization to
correct entries made  in error). This authorization will remain in effect until I give written notice to cancel it.
Customer   signature                                                                              Date
Venho   requerer  o  cadastro   do  Plano  de  Saúde   juntamente    com   o(s)  beneficiário(s)  do  plano   para fins de
4.978  de 03/02/2004,  Artigos  26, 27, 28 e 29 da  Portaria Normativa   nº 5 de 11/10/2010/SRH/MPOG.
4.  Detalhes  do plano e valor
-
Valor   do plano  (Valores correspondente  ao titular)                                                    R$   50,000
Relação dos dependentes e valor (ES) pago(s)                Vínculo              Data
(somente (s) dependente(s) legal(is)              (Filho, cônjuge, etc.) Nascimento
/    /        R$
/    /        R$
/    /        R$
/    /        R$
VALOR      TOTAL     A SER   PAGO    (valor do titular + dependente(s))   R$ 25,000
Observação:   Caso  haja  inclusão  ou exclusão   de beneficiários  do  plano  deverá  ser procurada    a DIRQS    para  fins
de atualização   do cadastro.
Data:      09/08/2020 / /
Nome  do Dependente  se for o caso:
Assinale uma das opções para o depósito, indicando para quem o reembolso deve ser realizado e preencha os dados bancários na opção escolhida:
Dados Bancários do Titular: Banco         Agência:           C/C                      CPF Titular da Conta
Dados Bancários do Dependente: Banco            Agência:           C/C                 CPF Titular da Conta
SERÁ  REALIZADO    O DEPÓSITO   EM  CONTA   DE TERCEIROS,    AINDA  QUE  O DEPENDENTE     NÃO  TENHA   CONTA   BANCÁRIA.
Nome  completo:       Arthur  Pesquisa
CEP:    20271-204             Cidade:  Rio de Janeiro       UF:  RJ    País: Brasil
Fone:    +55 98988578047             E-mail:           arthur.pesquisa@gmail.com
(    ) Portador  de Diploma
Curso de Origem:          Estruturas de dados - 101
Instituição de Origem:      University of São Paulo
Arthur Pesquisa
termos  do  Edital  01/2019,  o  qual  estabelece as  regras  do  Processo  Seletivo  para vagas
remanescentes  do Curso de Medicina  da UniCerrado.
Goiatuba,  15      de  Maio                  de 2019.
LAST                                            FIRST                                                        MIDDLE
Student       Address:
STREET                                          APT/UNIT                                                     ZIP
For Office Use Only
Date Stamp:                                                                 Received by:
First                          Middle                       Last
Course Name   and Number                                     College/University
7th                      3rd                               4                            A
Semester                  Year                               Credits Earned            Grade
Course Description
Departmental      Evaluation
Leyla     Formoso                                          Electronics
Departmental  Adviser or Chair (please print)                Department
Please check one:
This course should count as a major elective in my department, and should be
Yes              This course should count as a general elective in my department, and should be given the
transfer equivalent code 01: 110    :EC. (enter your department code)
This course should be given elective credit only. It should not count as a course for my
Approval Signature                                           Date
DEAN’S  OFFICE USE  ONLY                                                                                 Rev 12/15
thy                                           y
Monoclonal   antibodies                         Beta blockers
diastolic        Alkylating agents                               Possible role for statins
Antimetabolites
Proteasome  inhibitors       troponin,    BNP,  monitoring
newer
biomarkers         Discontinue
chemotherapy,       then
genetics           reinstitute with  LVEF
recovery
Ischemia         Antimetabolites              ECG                Nitrates  for  coronary
(vasospasm)                                     spasms
VSP-  inhibitor TKIs  (Mab                      Aspirin  for thrombosis
and    Smol)    –   arterial Stress test        risk
Antimicrotubule      agents  angiography        anti-anginal agents
(arterial thrombosis)        Cardiac MRI
venous                       CT  angiography    heparin
Histone         deacetylase  Other  concern  as Fondapariux
above
Hormonal            therapy
venous
Hypertension     VSP-  inhibitor TKIs  (Mab   On-site     blood  Amlodipine
and Smol)                    pressure checks
blood    pressure
monitoring         hypertensive   regimens
Hypotension      Interferons                  On-site     blood  IV  fluids
Interleukins                                    Midodrine    (if normal
Ambulatory         LVEF)
Discontinue
All-trans   retinoic   acid  monitoring         chemotherapy      if  in
(differentiation syndrome)
Nome:  elsa peres da silva
Situação Funcional:           Ativo         Aposentado         Pensionista
Siape: -                             Telefone de contato: (98)3245-9394 -      Ramal: -
E-mail:    elsasilva@hotmail.com
Lotação: Departamento   de Saúde                                                 (Centro/Departamento)
Dependente(s)
Nome: Rafaela  Schneider                                     CPF: 479.532.348-82
Grau de parentesco: prima                                    Data de Nascimento:  30/6/2001 / /
Nome:                                                        CPF:
Grau de parentesco:                                          Data de Nascimento:       /     /
3. Excetua-se  do item 2, os casos em  que  a operadora  do plano não  permita a inscrição de dependentes,
obrigando um  contrato por dependente (necessário comprovação   de responsabilidade financeira);
5. É obrigação do  servidor informar ao órgão concedente   qualquer  mudança   no plano (valor, inclusão ou
exclusão dos beneficiários) e nos dados cadastrais que impliquem  alteração/perda   do  benefício.
6. Apresentar  anualmente    declaração   e/ou  boletos  bancários  (com  respectivos  comprovantes    de
quitação)  do plano  privado  de assistência  à saúde,  caso  o desconto  não  seja feito em  folha.
Nestes Termos,
Belo Horizonte-MG                , 01    de abril           de  2020
Dependentes                                           Documento(s)    cópias
Cônjuge/companheiro(a)        de      união     estável;      - Se cônjuge: Certidão  de Casamento.
companheiro(a)        na       união       homoafetiva,       -  Se  companheiro(a):  Certidão  Pública  de  União
obedecidos         os        mesmos   critérios adotados      Estável.
para o reconhecimento   da união estável.
-  Certidão   de  Casamento     com   averbação   de
A pessoa   separada  judicialmente ou  divorciada, com        separação   ou divórcio.
percepção   de  pensão   alimentícia (a  existência de        -  Cópia   da  determinação    judicial referente ao
dependente   constante   no  item acima   desobriga  a        pagamento   de  pensão  alimentícia.
assistência à saúde  deste).                                  - CPF
- RG
Os  filhos e enteados,  solteiros, até 21 (vinte e um)        - Certidão de Nascimento   ou RG.
anos  de  idade  ou,  se  inválidos, enquanto  durar  a       - Laudo  Médico   devidamente   registrado no SIASS
invalidez.                                                    (no casode  filho inválido).
- Certidão de Nascimento   ou RG.
economicamente     do  servidor  e  estudantes   de           declarante.
curso   regular  reconhecido   pelo  Ministério  da           - Comprovante    de  matrícula atualizado,  de curso
Educação.                                                     regular, reconhecido  pelo MEC.
O  menor  sob  guarda  ou  tutela concedida  por decisão      - Certidão de Nascimento.
judicial.                                                     - Termo  de Guarda  ou Tutela.
- CPF
       sIGNatURe                                                                                                                     toDaY’s  Date
INFORMATION                  ON     PARTICIPANT                ( Please   Print)
Name   —  Last, First, Middle Initial                                                           Date  oF BIRth                     aGe                seX  (m/F)
maIlING   aDDRess                                                                                                    DaYtIme   PhoNe
ReFeRReD   BY?   ❍   mailer    ❍  Poster/Flier at site ❍  Internet    ❍  Newspaper  ad     ❍   Doctor    ❍   Friend   ❍   other:
�     SMAC      Chem      19   Panel    $35                         �     Complete        Blood     Count      (CBC)     $22            �     Rheumatoid          Arthritis      Panel    $95
• • HDL, Triglycerides, LDL, VLDL Cardiac Cholesterol, Risk Ratio Total Cholesterol 1.0 ml minimum—needs refrigerate asap/to own lavender lab within tube/gently 24 hr…code invert 3000 x6/ � Blood Type (Group & RH) $25
• Diabetes:   Glucose,  Fructosamine                                                                                                          3 ml minimum—needs own tube/lavender/refrigerate asap…code 2317
• Kidney:   BUN,    Creatinine                                �     HDL     and   Total     Cholesterol        $25
• Nutrition:   Protein,  Albumin,    Globulin                       LDL   and   Triglycerides   not included.                     �     Vitamin      D  Test    $70
• Iron: TIBC,    Transferrin   %  Sat.                                                1.5 ml minimum/tiger/spin within 45 min…code 2875 Fasting preferred,   primarily  recommended       to check
• Liver: Bilirubin,  GGTP,     SGOT,    SGPT,    LDH                                                                                   for deficiency,  common     in  children  and  adults.
• Bone:  Calcium,    Phosphates                               �     Apolipoprotein           A-1   &   B  $68                                                      1.0 ml minimum/tiger/spin…code 904059
• Electrolytes:  Sodium,    Chloride                                cardiovascular    risk.      1.0 ml minimum/tiger/spin…code 2062
2.5 ml minimum/tiger/spin within 45 min…code 803339                                                                                 Allergy        Testing
�                                                                          Allergy results mailed in approximately 2–3  weeks.
Colorectal       Cancer      Screening       $15
Recommended        for men   40  and  older.                        Kit must   be  returned   in provided   envelope   to               46  items  (incl: milk,  eggs,  meats,  grains).
is also recommended.         1.0 ml minimum/tiger/spin…code 8501                                                                  �    Southwest         Regional      Inhalant      Panel     $65
�     Hemoglobin          A1C    $35                                      45  items  (incl: grasses, dust,  pollens,  pet  hair).
8 hours   fasting  preferred  (water  only).  Helps                 glucose  control   over the  last few  months.                      Comprehensive            Food     Panel    $119
predict  heart  attack  risk.                                           1.0 ml minimum—needs own tube/lavender/refrigerate asap…code 9230 90 items—all   of basic  panel  plus  many   more.
1.0 ml minimum/tiger/spin…code 90045
�     Homocysteine           $90                                                           COMBO    PRICES…
(3rd Generation)                                                   or stroke.                                 tiger/spin…code 7074     Inhalant      Panels     $109
�     T3,   T4   and   T7   Thyroid      $28     1.0 ml minimum/tiger/
spin…code 1409 �     Sedimentation          Rate    $35                            �     Comprehensive            Food     and   Southwest
Data de nascimento:  03 / 03 / 1994             Sexo: ( ) Feminino  ( ) Masculino
Endereço:  R. da Ajuda,
Nº: 5 - 5º    Bairro: Andar  - Centro  Cidade: Rio  de Janeiro       CEP:  20040-007
E-mail: michael.pryor@bunge.com
Telefone: (  ) +55-98-98400-1957
RG:  27.777.891.8                           CPF: 046171124-99
This IMMEDIATE    CEASE  AND  DESIST  ORDER   is issued to:
Name  of Establishment  -Victory Baptist Church
Table   5    Return   to sport
exercise               increase heart rate.
exercise               exercise avoiding risk of head impact.
4        Non-contact            Sport-specific, non-contact training drills that involve
introduction of resistance training.
psychological readiness.
Child’s Name   Jorge  Quintas                                             Date : 02/12/2020
X      Yes,  I accept the support  described  above  for my child.
No,  at this time I wish to decline the services described above.
☐ SIM    ☐ NÃO
Autorizo que os meus dados pessoais sejam registados e tratados informaticamente, para uso interno e ex-
Nome   completo:  Thomas   Leitz
TYPE        Visa           EXPIRATION DATE  04-03-2025
PHONE:  641-903-7213             TODAY’S DATE:  04-03-2020
CITY, STATE, ZIP:  Conway,  AR  72032
CHARGES   COVERED   BY THIS CARD         Yes
All charges
Room and Tax
Incidentals Only
Owner   Name   (Please  print.)                                                                                                     Phone   (          )
Owner   Signature                                                                                                          Date
Name  on Acct    Rafal Cieslak                  Amex                 Discover
Bank Routing #    101000048                  Card Code
2
2       2                      RT                          1
=                     2 i e       Q  ( K  i )                   KF        1
VIX                                                               K         Interval between   strike prices – half the
100                                                          i      difference between   the  strike on either side of K i:
T    Time  to expiration                                                                        1      K   i 1
K   =   K  i +
K  0 First strike below the  forward  index  level, F
R   Q  (K  i )  The midpoint   of the bid-ask  spread  for each
K i > K 0 and a put if K i< K 0; both put and call if K i=K 0.              option with  strike K i.
City:    Louisville                          State:   KY            Zip: 40204
Articles identified through PubMed search
Alcohol (n=797)
Cancer Causing  Substancein  the
Hormones   (n=255)
Immunosuppression    (n=23)
Ultraviolet Radiation(n=84)
childhood experiences (n=475)
Adult cancer risk factor is not an outcome (n=1217)
Not empirical/original/quantitative research (n=449)
Full-text articles assessed for eligibility         Impact of ACEs  on cancer risk factors not investigated (n=405)
Hormones   (n=10)
Infectious Agents (n=48)
Tobacco  (n=89)                                Number   of articles excluded based on full review
(N=176*:  AL=129;  CI=22;  HO=10;   IA=36; OB=55;   RA=2;  TO=48)
Impact of ACEs  on cancer risk factors not investigated (n=70)
Published before 2005 (n=57)
Alcohol  (n=59)
Infectious Agents (n=12)
Tobacco  (n=41)
03-05-2019
Basilio Reyes
Regular mail:          Chase
Columbus,  OH  43224-0696
Overnight mail:        Chase
710 South Ash Street, Suite 200
Glendale, CO 80246-1989
Fax:                   1-614-422-7575  (Free of charge from any Chase branch)
(print clearly – this e-mail will be used for correspondence)
Herein after referred to as Tenant.
Situação:     Ativo (  )    Aposentado    (  )    Beneficiário  de Pensão   (   )
Telefone(s):    (14)3422-4433           Celular: (14) 3311-7322       E-mail:  roberto@ymail.com
(   ) Incluir    Servidor/Beneficiário                (   ) Excluir     Servidor/Beneficiário                  (   ) Alteração       do   mesmo        plano
(   ) Incluir    Dependentes                          (   ) Excluir     Dependentes                            (   ) Mudança         para    outro    plano
Dados        do(s)      dependente(s)
Data   de                                    Grau  de     Condição   de
Nome                                                                             Sexo             Parentesco     Dependente
Nascimento                                   (vide  verso)    (vide verso)
(    )Masculino
Lucas      Campos                                              / 17/7/1999 /      (    )Feminino         Cód.:           Cód.: 3
(    )Masculino
/     /            (    )Feminino         Cód.:           Cód.:
/     /            (    )Feminino         Cód.:           Cód.:
/     /            (    )Feminino         Cód.:           Cód.:
DADOS         DO     BENEfICIáRIO
027284011                                                          juan      zeballos
DADOS         DO     SOLICITANTE
4 - CNPJ  / CPF                                             5 - Nome                                                                                                   6 - Telefone                           7 - CRO/UF
03087750409                                                Eduardo          Kugelmas                                                                                   +55     98    98471-5918               PE
PROCEDIMENTOS                     SOLICITADOS              (ver    tabela    no   verso)
1 -   0    5    1    6    9   0    2    8       Odontologia           Estética                                                                                                                  Bridges and Implants Cirurgia da  mandíbula
3 -
5 -
6 -
7 -
10 -
14-
15-
Nenhum
NOME: Thomas Leitz
DATA DE NASCIMENTO: 03-03-1994
DETALHAR  O NOME  DO EXAME, OU DO MEDICAMENTO  OU DO TRATAMENTO  DE SAÚDE  QUE
É “OBJETO DA DESISTÊNCIA OU RECUSA”:
Radiografia de tórax e exames de sangue para sífilis
DETALHAR  O MOTIVO DA DESISTÊNCIA OU RECUSA:  NA
Identification:                                                       Prevention:
When   uncertain  of correct identification of efflorescence or      • Use cleaning  agent or procedure  recommended     by  brick
stain, have  experienced  brick personnel  or professionals           manufacturer   to prevent cleaning-related  stains
verify prior to cleaning                                             • Store brick off ground and cover  with non-staining water-
• Protect top of unfinished brickwork from  weather
Cannabis (maconha)           Cocaína       Anfetaminas       Opióides
Outro(s) (especificar):
2- Nome   do paciente: Geraldo Coen
25                 2255525
Name   of Applicant:                                                  Position Applied For:
Last Position Held:
(per application/resume)                                            Job Opening  Number:
Dates of Employment:      Start (MM/YY):                End (MM/YY):                      Salaried/Exempt       Hourly/Non‐Exempt
Salary:                   Start:               End:                                                 Average  Hours Per Week:
Applicant Signature                                              Date
21  CFR  314.126;  21 CFR   514.117
12 Target animals are the specific animals (e.g., species, class, etc.) for which the drug is intended for use. This draft
Warnings   Sections of Labeling for Human   Drug  and  Biological Products—Content     and Format.
15 21 CFR  201.57(c)(7)
16 The term adverse  event refers to the universe of untoward  medical occurrences  observed  in conjunction  with
exposure  to a drug, whether or not considered  drug-related (see 21 CFR   312.32(a)). Adverse   reactions are a subset
of adverse events  for which there is evidence to conclude  there is some basis to believe there is a causal relationship
between  the drug and  the adverse event (see 21 CFR   201.57(c)(7)).
17 21 CFR  201.57(c)(7)
Minnesota   Comprehensive    Assessments    (MCA)  and             ACCESS  and  Alternate  ACCESS  for English Learners
Minnesota   Test of Academic   Skills (MTAS)
annually in grades 3–8 and high school in reading and           • Given annually to English learners in grades K–12 in reading,
for science.                                                    • Majority of English learners take ACCESS for ELLs.
•  Majority of students take the MCA.                              • Alternate ACCESS  for ELLs is an option for English learners
cognitive disabilities.
Date                       (This form is only applicable for the 20     to 20     school year.)
Student’s Legal First Name                                           Student’s Legal Middle  Initial
Student’s Legal Last Name                                            Student’s Date  of Birth
Student’s District/School                                                              Grade
MCA/MTAS   Mathematics                  ACCESS/Alternate  ACCESS for ELLs
Inter-                                                                    Health care
stakeholders
(c.2) Disclosing and controlling prices
along the supply chain                                                                                                                              
(c.3) Reporting the costs of R&D and
production, including public sources of                                                                                                   
funding
(c.4) Communicating  pricing and
reimbursement   decisions to the public,                                                                                        
when  appropriate
(d) Promoting   cross-sector  & cross-
border  collaboration
(d.2) Harmonizing regulatory requirements
for biosimilar medicines to ensure safety                                                                                                 
(d.4) Pooling subnational, national and
I hereby authorize Ambassador  Chicago to charge:
□ American   Express     □ Visa      □ Master  Card      □ Discover Card      □ Diners  Club
Billing address
Phone:   (706)  850-2588                       City: Savannah                ST:  GA          ZIP:  31419
Cardholder's Signature:
For the following  charge(s):
All Charges                       □ YES                Room  &  Tax Only-                   □ YES
Room  &  Tax Only                 □ YES
3.                                                        4.
5.                                                        6.
7.                                                        8.
Arrival Date:  03  01  2020                               Departure Date:  09  01  2020
Name  on credit card (please print): Fidela Doyle
I hereby authorize Ambassador  Chicago to charge:
Credit Card Number                                        Expiration Date                     Security Code
Billing address
Name:  Fidela  Doyle                                      Address: 12300   Apache    Ave  #107
Phone:   (706)  850-2588                       City: Savannah                ST:  GA          ZIP:  31419
Cardholder's Signature:
For the following  charge(s):
Incidentals Guaranteed
For Ambassador    Chicago   guest(s) or Group:
1.  Seth   Dicki                                          2.
3.                                                        4.
7.                                                        8.
Arrival Date:  03  01  2020                               Departure Date:  09  01  2020
AMBASSADOR
FORMULÁRIO FORMULÁRIO    Nº Nº 01 –  Documento           de   Informação
DADOS    DO  SOLICITANTE
NOME    COMPLETO:           Andre    Jakurski
MATRÍCULA     IPERGS:
Nº DO CARTÃO
CEP:                        30112-010                                BAIRRO:
TIPO  DE  LICENÇA    /
DESLIGAMENTO       /
VÍNCULO    / REGIME
EMPREGATÍCIO:
AFASTAMENTO       /                                                  DO
EXONERAÇÃO:                                                          AFASTAMENTO:
ÓRGÃO    DE  LOTAÇÃO:
( (  ) ) Sim Sim - Data:     /          /                                            Pág.:
PUBLICAÇÃO      NO
DOE:
Assinatura do segurado
USO  EXCLUSIVO     DO  ÓRGÃO     DE ORIGEM
Carimbo  do Órgão  Informante
Matrícula Matrícula do do Responsável: Responsável:   -
Carimbo   do Responsável:
Michael    Clarke                                              Check  here if declaring exemption for
Name                                                            a minor child and enter child's name below.
Patricia  White
City/State/Zip                                               Name  of School
(602)943-1992
Telephone
Teacher Evaluation                             A  grade of 3/C- or higher in English Language Arts for most recent completed semester,
assessment  criteria but did not meet the ELA grade criteria.
Parental Opinion and Consultation              Parent Notice and Participation
Comparison  of Performance  in Basic Skills    A  minimum   basic skills score* on an English Language Arts assessment:
02. Cód. Cartão: 3695
06. Destino:
07. Contato hospital: San Jose Behavioral Health Hospital 08. Telefone: +55 98 99608-4062
09. Motivos de Alta:
10. Uso de Oxigenoterapia:      Sim           Não       Qual modalidade?
11. Isolamento:                 Sim           Não       Qual tipo?
12. Relatar as caracteristicas e/ou comorbidades específicas do paciente:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Enfermeiro  Responsável
Assinatura e Carimbo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assinatura e Carimbo
13. Análise do Coordenador  SOS  Unimed:                Autorizado
15. Data: 10/29/2020
PRIMARY   MALIGNANT  NEOPLASMS,   NOT LYMPHATIC   OR         140.XX-172.XX, 174.XX-195.XX
HEMATOPOIETIC
SECONDARY    MALIGNANT  NEOPLASMS    (I.E. METASTATIC)       196.XX-198.XX
MALIGNANT   NEOPLASMS,   UNKNOWN   SITE                      199.00
LEUKEMIAS   AND LYMPHOMAS                                    200.XX-208.XX
NEUROENDOCRINE     TUMORS                                    209.0X-209.3X
CARCINOMA   IN SITU                                          230.XX-234.XX
CANCER                                                                                      ICD-9  CODES
I. LUNG                                                           162.XX
II. PANCREATIC   (EXCLUDED)                                       157.XX
III. BLOOD (EXCLUDED)                                             202.4X, 203.1X, 204.XX-208.XX
V. COLORECTAL                                                     153.XX, 154.0, 154.1
City:                                       State:               Zip Code:
Phone  Number:
Email Address:
✓                          Course                              Date(s)        CEH’S         Fee
Assessment  & Evidence-Based   Treatment Strategies   7-9pm
for Older Adults with Frailty
☐    CE145:  Geriatric Exercise Prescription: Moving       November   5          2          $20
Beyond  10 Reps for 3 Sets                            7-9pm
Endereço do Hospital/Clínica (Rua, Cidade e Estado)
Tipo de doença           Tempo  de evolução da doença              Em  caso de acidente informar
Data             Horário
Cirúrgico      Outros         Urgência
Nome  do Médico  Assistente  CRM                     Data internação     Data alta        Total de Dias de
Internação
Especialidade                DDD    Telefone         Horário Internação Horário  da alta
Local:                                         Data:                Assinatura  do Segurado
Local:                                         Data:                Assinatura  do Médico   com   carimbo  e CRM
Central de Sinistro de Seguros de Pessoas                            SAC:  0800  721 1144
Comunicação   e Informações  de Sinistro de Seguros de Pessoas     Defi ciência Auditiva ou de Fala: 0800 722 0099
Capitais e Regiões Metropolitanas: 4004  2794            Reclamações,  Cancelamentos   e Informações Gerais.
Demais  Localidades: 0800  701 2794                      Atendimento  24 horas, 7 dias por semana.
Atendimento  de 2ª a 6ª feira, das 8h00 às 18h00, exceto feriados.
contate a Ouvidoria, das 08h às 18h, de 2ª a 6ª feira, exceto feriados.
Mod.: 5310-968E   Versão: 03/2019
SOLICITAÇÃO           DE:
(  ) Licença   para:  (  ) tratamento    de Saúde     (   ) Gestante     (  )Por  motivo   de  doença   em   pessoa  da  família
(  ) Prorrogação    de  licença
(  ) Outros
Nome     do  Servidor:             Ana     Cristina     Reif   de   Paula                                                          (Obrigatório/Legível)
CPF:       063464204-96
RG:   55.930.302-6                                               Órgão:                 UF:   RJ        Data  de  Expedição:     04/02/2010 / /
Cargo:      Executivo                                            Lotação:                  Angra      dos    Reis
Data   Nascimento:     01/03/1996 /      /                                                                                        Sexo:   (  ) M  (  ) F
Médico    Assistente: Rafael    Barbastefano
Local:  Angra    dos   Reis
(CRM    e Carimbo    – obrigatórios)
Data:              /        /
04/03/12
Assinatura   do Paciente  ou  Responsável
2.              Todo  atestado / relatório médico deverá conter a identificação completa do paciente;
3.              O  prazo legal para dar entrada em solicitação de licença médica é de 03 (três) dias úteis após o afastamento do trabalho;
4.              Em  se tratando de prorrogação, o prazo é de 10 (dez) dias antes do vencimento da licença anterior;
Licença  Médica  e                    Relatório Médico  padrão GESPRE,   preenchido pelo médico  assistente.
Prorrogação   de Licença              Xérox  dos exames  que comprovam   o diagnóstico.
    Xérox  do Relatório de Procedimentos da Sala de Cirurgia / Anestesista / Cirurgião
    Pasta “Rosa” (capa do prontuário, somente se 1° licença)
    Ultra-sonografia, caso não tenha ocorrido o parto e/ou que comprove qualquer alteração na gestação.
Licença  Acompanhante                 Relatório Médico  padrão GESPRE    preenchido pelo médico assistente
    Declaração  de internação hospitalar (original), caso tenha ocorrido internação.
Dados  Pessoais do  Segurado/Participante
Dados Nome Pessoais Completo do (sem Beneficiário abreviações) Data de Nascimento   CPF/CNPJ/MF
Doc. Identificação - Tipo Nº Documento             Grau  de Parentesco com  o Segurado
Bairro                                    Cidade                                    UF      CEP
Domicílio  Fiscal (País onde declara o IR)
Outro (Qual?)                              NIF (Nº de Identificação Fiscal)
Autorizo receber informações do Sinistro via SMS
Nome  do Banco        Cód. Banco  Díg. Conta-Corrente                  Conta-Poupança
Cód. Agência                      Díg.    Individual                      Individual
Empresa/Órgão  Público
Nome  do Cargo ou Função                                   Data Início do Exercício Data Fim do Exercício
I,                                                hereby  authorize  Ultimate Jumpers,   Inc. to
charge  the amount   of (US $) $                     to the account  indicated below:
Credit Card holder’s name:
Cardholder’s Billing Address:
City:                               State:               ZIP Code:
Name   (please print) Lorraine Peluso                                         I.D. # 2538971
Make  Model  of Vehicle  GMC  Terrain SLE1
S.P.O.  -                 On-campus   residence (building/room)  -
Office Use Only
Type:                Permit Number:                Expires:          Issued by: Michael Weaver
Registartion              248                       08/08/2023                Date: 10/05/2019
Instructor’s Name                      Phone                     Email Address
Apólice N°                                Estipulante / Sub Estipulante
2    Dados     do   segurado     principal    (preencher   somente   quando    o sinistro for de cônjuge)
Data nasc.                                          CPF                                                        Sexo
3    Dados     do   segurado     sinistrado
Tipo        Segurado   principal        Cônjuge         N° Certifi cado
Nascimento                                Sexo                        CPF                                   Estado Civil
Descrição da ocorrência (narração clara e circustãnciada) e qual o membro ou orgão do corpo atingido:
Data                                      Assinatura do estipulante
Pessoa de contato                                                                                                (DDD)  Telefone
4    Dados     do   sinistro
Data do evento                                        Hora                                                            Em serviço        Sim         Não
Local / endereço                                                                                                 Registro policial      Sim         Não
Tipo de Sinistro invalidez Permanente    Total ou Parcial por Acidente   - IPA
5     Dados    do   reclamante
Endereço
Bairro                                                               Cidade                                                       UF
CEP                                                                               (DDD)  Telefone
Local e data                                                         Assintura do reclamante
Data do  acidente                                       Internou-se para tratamento em  virtude do acidente que o vitimou        Clínico         Cirúrgico
Data da internação
Nome   hospital                                                                                      Data da alta hospitalar
Encontrou  no segurado  outros defeitos físicos, moléstias ou doenças existentes antes da data do acidente?
Cite especificando lesões/doenças e o percentual de perda funcional.
Nome   do médico  responsável                                                                                 CRM
y              Chemotherapeutic         Methodologies    Prevention
Cardiotoxicit  Classes (Incidence)
y
2.   Off-label  Use  of Drugs  and Biological  in an Anti-Cancer   Chemotherapeutic    Regimen
3.   National  Cancer  Institute (NCI)  Designated   “Group  C”  Drugs
4.   Examples    of Not Reasonable   and  Necessary
6.   Examples    of chemotherapy   services include  but are not limited to:
a.   Oral  Anti-cancer  Drugs
c.   Aprepitant
d.   Abarelix
e.   Inpatient  or outpatient oncology  services
f.   Osmotic   Blood  Brain  Barrier Disruption  (BBBD)
S.S. #:                                CLASS  OF:
ADDRESS:
TELEPHONE   NUMBER:  (     )
1) Instituição responsável pela internação:
2) Médico  responsável  pela assistência:                                        CRMMG
3) Nome  do  Paciente
Unidade  do paciente:                                            Nº IPSM
4) Data da internação        /        /         Data alta           /          /
5) Diagnóstico da alta hospitalar e CID :
6) Sumário  da evolução  do paciente desde sua entrada até a alta:
8) Tratamentos  realizados:
9) Intercorrências durante o tratamento hospitalar :
10) Apoio  familiar? ( ) Sim ( ) Não
Assinatura:
3) Nome  do  Paciente
Unidade  do paciente:                                            Nº IPSM
5) Diagnóstico da alta hospitalar e CID :
6) Sumário  da evolução  do paciente desde sua entrada até a alta:
7) Comorbidades   diagnosticadas:
8) Tratamentos  realizados:
9) Intercorrências durante o tratamento hospitalar :
10) Apoio  familiar? ( ) Sim ( ) Não
11) Medicamentos   prescritos na alta hospitalar (relacionar os fármacos e doses respectivas)
Assinatura:
April 15, 2020
Via Electronic Correspondence
12025  Waterfront Drive, Suite 300
Göran  Marby, President and CEO
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
12025  Waterfront Drive, Suite 300
Los Angeles, CA  90094-2536
Pesquisador      responsável:    (Nome   do  Professor    Orientador)     Ana Cristina Reif de Paula
Pesquisador     assistente:   (Nome   dos   demais   pesquisadores      envolvidos)
Arthur Pesquisa
DECLARAÇÃO        PESSOAL     DE  SAÚDE   E  ATIVIDADE
Responda   de próprio punho   ao questionário, escrevendo  por extenso  as respostas
SIM ou  NÃO  e os esclarecimentos.
2 – Sofre ou sofreu alguma moléstia nos últimos três anos, que o tenha obrigado a consultar médicos, hospitalizar-se,
submeter-se a intervenção cirúrgica ou afastar-se de suas atividades normais de trabalho? Em caso afirmativo, informe
no item 7 quando ocorreu o tratamento, qual o motivo e os nomes dos médicos e hospitais.
3 – Tem  qualquer deficiência de órgão, membro ou sentido? Em  caso afirmativo, especifique no item 7 quais e qual o
grau de redução.
especifique no item 7.
6 – Autoriza os médicos,  instituições médicas e outras companhias  de  seguro a prestarem  todas as informações
necessárias a MBM   Seguradora  S.A. para que certifique a veracidade do conteúdo declarado neste questionário na
7 – Especificações:
(Preencher somente  com  os dados  do titular)
Nome    completo   do associado    / titular: Miguel  Pryor
Telefones   de  contato:  +55-98-98400-1957     ou                          Ass.:
Banco:    Banco   do  Brasil       Agência:                           Conta   Corrente:   614.925-0
Se  dependente    ou  agregado,   preencher   dados   abaixo:
Nome    completo:    Miguel  Pryor
CPF  / CNPJ do      Data de   Cód. do               Valor      Valor a ser
Doc.   Cód. Benef. prestador de serviço  realização  serviço   Risco  apresentado   reembolsado
1
2
TOTAL                                                                                R$
Nome  do servidor: Gabriel Mauricio
Cargo: Empresa   de  Software          Data de Nascimento:    1/2/1992 / /
Matrícula SIAPE: válido                 Lotação: 2022
Nome  do Dependente                              cônjuge)                       Data de Nasc.
Ione Mauricio                                   filho                                   04/02/2017
Applicant's/Petitioner's/Requester's   Information  (Full Legal Name)
Given Name  (First Name)               Middle Name  (if any)               Family Name (Last Name)
Credit Card  Information
Credit Card Number                       Credit Card Type:      Visa                Authorized Payment Amount
Credit Card Expiration Date                                     American Express
(mm/yyyy)                                                       Discover
1 - DADOS    DO  REQUERENTE
NOME  COMPLETO                                                                                        CPF
Alberto    Minniti   Amoroso                                                       523.434.215-87
LOGRADOURO   (Rua, Avenida, etc)                                                          Nº          COMPLEMENTO
Av.  Pátria,   1351                                                  34690828
BAIRRO    TAXASLuiz                                CEP                       CIDADE                                UF
Vargas                                          99500-000                    Carazinho                         RS
TELEFONE                              EMAIL                                                           COMUNICADOS   POR E-MAIL?
2 - DADOS    DO  PORTADOR      DA  PATOLOGIA     (caso  não  seja o requerente)
NOME  COMPLETO                                                                                        CPF
GRAU DE PARENTESCO
CÔNJUGE                  FILHO(A)
3- PATOLOGIA     INCAPACITANTE       DE NATUREZA     GRAVE,    CRÔNICA    OU  TERMINAL
cardiopatia grave                                               cegueira (inclusive monocular)
espondiloartrose anquilosante                                   fibrose cística (mucoviscidose)
hanseníase                                                      nefropatia grave
hepatopatia hepatopatia grave grave                             neoplasia neoplasia maligna maligna
síndrome de Down                                                autismo
IPTU e                EXERCÍCIO:                            ÍNDICE   CADASTRAL:
LOGRADOURO   (Rua, Avenida, etc)                                                          Nº          COMPLEMENTO
Solicito a Remissão dos  créditos tributários inscritos no Cadastro acima indicado, haja vista a existência
DECLARO   estar ciente de que  as afirmações  acima  serão verificadas por Agente  Fiscal da PMC  e que a apresentação   de informações
falsas ao Fisco Municipal sujeita o contribuinte a multa, conforme   previsto em  legislação específica.
DECLARO   estar ciente que  a falta de documentos   exigidos implicará no indeferimento   do pedido.
DECLARO   estar ciente que  o indeferimento  do  pedido implica na  exigência do pagamento   do  valor das parcelas já vencidas  com  os
acréscimos  previstos nos  artigos 29 e 35 do Código Tributário do Município  de  Contagem.
4 - Cópia da certidão de casamento, caso o portador da patologia seja o cônjuge.
Saúdecadastrada  pelo Sistema Único  de Saúde - SUS.
seja seja proprietário proprietário no no Município, Município, utilizado utilizado exclusivamente exclusivamente como como sua sua residência residência e e de de sua sua família. família.
BUS   DRIVER’S     NAME:
(Must correspond to name on driver’s license)
Price revision      Revise prices upon  entry    1.  Determine/negotiate    rules of price revision
market              products
condition  or
509.324.1464                                     |    zop
□   Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing                □   Nausea/vomiting/diarrhea
fever                                                          allergies
□   Sore throat                                                □   Unusual fatigue
□   Chills                                                     □   Headache
□   New  loss of taste or smell
AUTORIZAÇÃO          DE  SÓCIO     PARA    ATENDIMENTO
NOME EMPRESARIAL
ENDERE Ç O
TELEFONE
SÓCIO-TITULAR DA EMPRESA                                       TELEFONE
CPF/MF                                    IDENTIDADE / ÓRGAO EXPEDIDOR
NOME  DA PESSOA AUTORIZADA                                     TELEFONE
CPF/MF                                    IDENTIDADE / ÓRGAO EXPEDIDOR
AGÊNCIA DA RECEITA ESTADUAL-ARE
BREACH     OF                       Both controllers and processors  have  obligations to respond to a personal data breach.
PERSONAL     DATA
A personal data  breach is a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction,
loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored, or
otherwise processed,  in any form or medium   and is not limited to unauthorized access to
country without  undue  delay,  and where   feasible within 72  hours  of becoming   aware  of the
In the event of a breach  causing   a high risk to affected individuals,  a controller must  notify
the affected individuals  without  undue   delay, unless  it qualifies for one of several
enumerated    exceptions.
include another   form  of payment    on file.
Name   of Cardholder:  Boyer                                                     Walter
Card Type:                   Visa           MC          Amex         Discover   Expiration Date: 03        / 23       CVV#:  553
Credit Card Number   (last four numbers only):   4                9              3            0
Billing Address (Required): 7998 Chase Cir APT 1 Arvada, CO 80003, USA
Phone  Number:   (502) 434-0447 x317
Authorized  Signature:                                                                  Date:  03 01 2020
indicate?                 The lower (diastolic) number is the pressure when the heart is resting between beats.
What  is a "normal"  adult blood      Less than 140 over 90
Nome: Nome: Nome: Nome: Andre Jakurski
RG: RG: RG: RG: 34.684.274-8             CPF: CPF: CPF: CPF: 053697644-92
Cargo/função Cargo/função Cargo/função Cargo/função pretendido: pretendido: pretendido: pretendido: Gerente
Post-normal   science (Funtowicz   and Ravetz,
Development      of   scientific  methodologies,                 FIRST-LEVEL       THEORY                         1994),   and   failure  of  accountability   of
et al., 2009)
Bioethical codes
Bioethics  education               SECOND-LEVEL         PRACTICE                         of practice
to facilitate                         RECOMMENDATIONS                                  (Baker, 2015;                Theory  predicting
of                                                                                                                                 new  paradigmatic
theory         to             development                                                                            2015)  making
‘wicked  problems’            (White  et al., 2014).                   CITIZEN      SCIENCE:                           maximised                  research, requiring
Rittel and Webber,                                                LITERATURES         TO  LINK    TO                transparency and              high volume  data
accountability
transdisciplinary                                                   AND    ACCOUNTABILITY                                                         protein-based
inputs into                                                                                                           Open   peer                 biologics (Scannell
changes:  negotiating
disciplines versus                Proactively            An  explicit focus on         immediacy   in
training as a specialist         strengthening           communication    to ensure     Bioethical
discipline (Grady,            ethics preparedness        validity of public            conversations             Probabilistic
2015)               (O’Keefe  et al., 2015)          2014).                 volume   data,
information  and
knowledge   inputs
and Tasioulas,  2013), and increasing                                    theoretical framework  which  places those                        problem   solving
affected by breakthroughs  and  consequences
legitimacy  of population involvement  in                                of biomedical  research at the centre of                          (Callaghan,  2016).
scientific research.
bioethics debates.
/s/ Paul R. Spaniola                                 Sincerely,
Prosecuting  Attorney                                Christina M. Grossi
Department   of Attorney General
NOME:    Andre  Jakurski
SEXO:     Masculina                                                                               Foto 3x4
DATA  DE NASCIMENTO:   02/06/1995
NOME  DA MÃE: Ana   Cristina Reif de Paula
NOME  DO PAI: Rafael  Barbastefano
CPF:  053697644-92
RG RESPONSÁVEL    (obrigatório para menores de 18 anos): 34.684.274-8
CPF RESPONSÁVEL    (obrigatório para menores de 18 anos): 053697644-92
CEP:     30510-000
E-MAIL:    thomas@leitz.ca
TELEFONE:   +55  61  99236-9548
INSTITUIÇÃO DE  ENSINO:     University  of São  Paulo
(  ) Horizontina = 20 Km                       (  ) Ijuí = 72 Km
(  ) Santa Rosa = 34 Km                        (  ) Santo Ângelo = 96 Km
EMPRESA   QUE REALIZA  O TRANSPORTE:
DADOS  DA CONTA  BANCÁRIA:
Nome  e número do banco: Banco do Brasil
Número da conta bancária: 7386-5
Assinatura do estudante universitário
Gênero: Gênero: ( ( ) ) Feminino Feminino ( ( ) ) Masculino Masculino ( ( ) ) Não Não-Binário Binário ( ( ) ) Outro: Outro: -
CPF:           063464204-96                      (  ) próprio        (   ) responsável
(Candidato      ou   responsável)
------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
Número Número da da Inscrição: Inscrição: 4106134          Data Data da da inscrição: inscrição: 11 / / 16 / / 20
Servidor:      Amazon
(assinatura e carimbo)
Série/Período: 4th               e-mail:  anareif@petrobras.com.br
RG/Órgão   Emissor:  55.930.302-6                   CPF:  063464204-96
CEP:  23953-030        Cidade: Angra dos  Reis                                           UF: RJ
References                                                                                                                 I
Appendices                                                                                                            XXVI
Appendix   A: Resolution WHA70.12                                                                           XXVIII
Appendix   B: Five-year age standardized   survival rates for cancers                                       XXXIII
Appendix   C: Members   of informal  advisory groups                                                       XXXVIII
CPF:   053697644-92
Curso:
Análise    de   imagem       para   câncer
3-  Claudio      Haddad
Membro   suplente da banca avaliadora da Dissertação de Mestrado:
NOME  COMPLETO:                                                                SEXO:
FILIAÇÃO (PAI, MÃE OU RESPONSÁVEL LEGAL):
RG: 179082371                   ÓRGÃO  EMISSOR/UF:                 CPF: 080478214-82
Primary Member  Name   (First)                                       (Last)
Joint Member Name      (First)                                        (Last)
Account Number                                                     Primary Phone Number
Choose  the month  you wish  to take advantage of our Skip-A-Payment  offer: (Choose one  only)
   November  2020 (must be submitted by Nov 6th)                December  2020  (must be submitted by Dec 4th)
Choose  which  loan you would  like to skip:
Vehicle  Loan                                    Personal   Loan
Please take the $30 processing  fee for             Savings Account
 I will make the payment at the branch
All Persons who  signed the original loan document  must sign this request form.
Signature                                                                             Date
Joint Signature                                                                       Date
closest   branch.
Plate Number:                                                          Unit Number:
Last 5 of VIN:                                                         Year / Make:
This draft guidance,  when  finalized, will represent the Food and Drug  Administration’s   (FDA’s)  current
thinking on  this topic. It does not create or confer any rights for or on any person and does not operate  to
bind FDA   or the public. You  can  use an alternative approach  if the approach satisfies the requirements of
the applicable statutes and regulations.  If you want to discuss an alternative approach,  contact the FDA
staff responsible for implementing   this guidance. If you cannot  identify the appropriate FDA   staff, call
the appropriate number   listed on the title page of this guidance.
This draft guidance  describes the Food  and Drug  Administration’s  (FDA’s   or Agency’s)  current
thinking on recommended     practices for drug manufacturers  (firms) and their representatives to
follow if they choose to distribute to health care professionals2 or health care entities3 scientific
marketed  in the United States. The  recommendations    in this draft guidance are intended to
address issues specific to the distribution of new information about  risks associated with a drug
that further characterizes risks identified in the approved labeling.
information  (as that term is further explained in section II of this document) for drugs intended
the Agency  generally  takes a similar approach when   addressing the issues raised in this draft
1 This draft guidance has been prepared  by the Center for Drug Evaluation  and Research  (CDER)   in cooperation
2 For purposes of this draft guidance, health care professionals include those providing care to either human or
3 As used in this draft guidance, health care entities include hospitals, professional medical organizations, drug
formulary  committees,  pharmacy  benefit managers,  health insurance issuers, group health plans, and Federal or
State governmental  agencies involved  in the provision of health care or health insurance. For purposes of the draft
guidance, health care entities also include any such similar organizations involved in animal health care.
4 As used in this draft guidance, the term drug includes drugs approved  for use in humans or animals and  drugs
regulated as biological products licensed under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act  (42 U.S.C. 262(a)).
5 For animal drugs, this draft guidance also applies to over-the-counter and Veterinary Feed Directive drugs.
6 This guidance does  not apply to products regulated as medical devices.
primary  cancer recurrence                                  Yes  /No /Not clear
quality of life                                             Yes  /No /Not clear
side effects                                                Yes  /No /Not clear
Amount  to be charged to
Credit Card                     $ 6551
Type of Card                    Visa             Master Card                 American  Express
Name  on Credit Card            Myesha   Orn
Credit Card Number                     4485595211261495
Expiration Date                         03-03-2022
State and Zip Code                     CA,94538    USA
Signature of Cardholder
Sub-Total         $ 500              4% Admin  Fee      $ 5500            Total Due         $6000
CREDIT CARD NUMBER                            NAME  ON CARD
EXPIRATION DATE          CVC CODE                BILLING ZIP CODE
Paciente          Responsável
Geraldo
Local e data: Vitoria e 02/12/2020
Expliquei todo o procedimento, exame,  tratamento e/ou cirurgia a que o paciente acima referido está
sujeito (e/ou ao seu  responsável), explicando  sobre os  riscos e alternativas, e respondendo  às
perguntas realizadas. De acordo com  meu  entendimento,  o paciente (e/ou ao seu responsável), está
em  condições de compreender  o que lhes foi informado.
Monica   Herz                                      65247
Primary   type
Men                Hodgkin  lymphoma                                                                                   1.9*
Testis                                                          1.4*
Melanoma                                                            1.3*
Urinary bladder                                                        1.3*
Non-Hodgkin   lymphoma                                                         1.2*
Leukemia                                                      1.2*
Brain & ONS                                                     1.2*
Liver & intrahepatic bile duct                                               1.1
Colon  & rectum                                              1.0*
Myeloma                                           1.0
Stomach                                          1.0
Pancreas                                 0.8*
Prostate                        0.6*
0.0                  0.5                  1.0                  1.5                  2.0                  2.5                  3.0
Oral cavity & pharynx                                                                                            2.1*
Urinary bladder                                                            1.4*
Breast                                                    1.2*
Thyroid                                                 1.1*
Brain & ONS                                                1.0
Uterine corpus                                     0.9*
Pancreas                                  0.9*
0.0                  0.5                  1.0                  1.5                  2.0                  2.5                  3.0
Source:  Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End  Results (SEER) Program, 9 SEER registries, National Cancer Institute.96
(Family/ Last Name)                      First Name
Email Address:       breann.dicki@yahoo.com
Name   (as it appears on card):        Randi
Name  (as it appears on card):          Braun
of Credit Card (Visa, MC,  Discover):    Visa
Credit Card  No.:                           4556183623134180
Credit Card  Expiration Date:                   03 01 2023
Amount   to be charged (USD):  $      500
Description  of Charge:                     Donation
AAFCS    ID#
Job  Title
Email
Home   Address
Address   (Line 2)
City                                  State                         ZIP  Code
Province/Country  (If
outside USA  only)
NAME
Manager
TITLE
ORGANIZATION
406  Calle Macho
mleiser@largo.com
Conference   Fees:         SWANA/MRN     Member*                Non-Member
Thursday  Only                            $135                    $155      $
Less SWANA-MA     Special ($45 Deduction  per SWANA    Member)              $
Total Due       $ 195
Payment:           Check   (Payable  to MRN)          MasterCard/Visa           Amex
Cardholder:   Martin  Leiser                                         CSV   #: 439
Card  No.: 5416300029979672                                          Exp  Date:  08/05/2023
Address  of Cardholder   (only if different from above):
Same    as  above
ADDRESS
-                                                    -                    -
CITY                                                STATE                 ZIP
Last four of Social Security 9014
Phone  Number               (478)987-0707
Case Number  (if known)         558947
Alain  tanugi                                         02-04-2020
Signature                                             Name  (Print)                                  Date
PROPERTY      OWNER’S     NAME                                                                                        VIN NUMBER
Michael           Gordon                                                                                               2     L     N      H     M     8      2     V     X      8     X     6      3     2     9      0     2
ADDRESS                                                                                                               VEHICLE   YEAR
CITY                                                               STATE              ZIP                             VEHICLE   MAKE
VEHICLE   MODEL
2017
Year     Acquired        . . . . . . . . . . . .
RECOMMENDED                              APPRAISAL                     ACTION:
(cid:2)   None                                                                           (cid:2)   Vehicle             Review
$
Market      Value     Adjustment         . . . . . .    $                                                             Signed
CHAIRMAN
Final    Vehicle      Market      Value.     . . . .    $
MEMBER
(cid:2) For  current     tax   year    only
0      0                                           Month Year
Identification Number 8 3 0 2  5  3  2
Credit cardholder's billing address (Address where you receive your credit card statement)
Credit cardholder's phone number 4 0 4 - 9 2 5 - 7 4 2 9  x 1 1 1
Email s i l a s .  k u p  h a  l @  h o  t m a  i l  . c  o m
Day  Month Year
Signature                                                     Date 09 07 2020
Número  de ID      7396237                                                             CAIXA              PACOTE
Milton de Freitas Almeida Neto Se representante,           Irmão
Nome  do paciente                                relacionamento com
o paciente
Versão  1.0 datada  de 26/11/2012
Milton  de  Freitas  Almeida    Neto     12/04/2002
Nome  do paciente/representante          Data                     Assinatura (digital do dedão, ou outra marca, se não
puder assinar)
Mauricio   Machado                       12/04/2002
Nome  da pessoa que está dando o
Marcio   Trigueiro                       12/04/2002
Nome  do Investigador Principal          Data                     Assinatura
1  Nome  do requerente:            Pericles Silva Pereira
2  Data de nascimento:     15    / 12      / 1990
n t                                     $7,273  Total monthly spending                                      $8  n t
a   100%                                                                                                    $6  a  s )
P                                                                                                               P  0
r                                                                                                               r  0
P  t                                                                                                        $4  P  $
a  o                                                                                                            n  h
t  M                                                                                                            i  t
T  r                                                                                                            n  o
f  e 20%                                                                                                        e  M
n      0%                                                                                                   $0  l
c e        -11  -9  -7  -5  -3  -1  1   3   5   7   9   11  13  15  17  19  21  23  25  27  29  31  33  35      t a P
P e                             Month 0         Months  from Diagnosis                                          T
Chemotherapy, Chemotherapy Administration, and Related Drugs Other Drugs
Radiation Therapy                                           Hospital Inpatient
Facility Services, Other                                    Professional and Other Services excl. Chemo and Rad Therapy
■ Lung Cancer
n  $250,000    Breast                                                                            $25,000 e
i            ■       Cancer                                                                              k
n            Solid lines represent total health                                                          o
S            Dotted lines represent patient                                                              o
a                                                                                                        O
e                                                                                                        t
H  $100,000                                                                                      $10,000 n
o t $50,000                                                                                      $5,000  P a
T
0   2  4   6  8  10 12  14 16  18 20  22 24  26 28  30 32  34 36 38  40 42  44 46
Child  Information                    Check #         Cash:
Please Print:
Child’s Name:   Jorge  Quintas
Please list the location and date of each Sacrament your child has received:
Home  Phone Number:  n/a                         Emergency Phone Number:  n/a
1. NOME    DO   CURSO:
2. PERÍODO:                                                              3. HORÁRIO:
4. CARGA   HORÁRIA     TOTAL:
DADOS    DO  SERVIDOR      SOLICITANTE
6. ESCOLARIDADE:
7. CONTATOS:     E-mail:
8. ATIVIDADES    QUE   DESEMPENHA        EM  SUA  UNIDADE/ÓRGÃO:        (se necessário,  utilize o verso, rubricando no final)
9. O QUE   VOCÊ   ESPERA     DE  RESULTADOS      COM    A REALIZAÇÃO      DESTE   CURSO/EVENTO?         (se necessário, utilize o verso,
10. O curso  será utilizado para fins de Licença Capacitação?          Sim             Não
DADOS    DA  CHEFIA
1. NOME:
Assinatura do Solicitante                                      Assinatura e carimbo da Chefia Imediata
Em         /         /                                                 Em         /        /
NOME           CPF      MATRÍCULA      DATA  DOS    CARGO/FUNÇÃO       LOTAÇÃO       TIPO DE
COMPLETO                                  PRIMEIROS                                    VÍNCULO
Miguel Pryor  046171124-99  27.777.891.8 03-03-1995     Gerente
NÚMERO    DE  BENEFICIÁRIO     DA CPAS    4644932
NOME   COMPLETO          Wagner    Gentil
LOCALIDADE      Barueri,  Brasil  COD.POST.    | 0 | 6 4 | 6 | 0 |-| - 0 | 4 | 0 | TELEFONE 65- 3316-5342 TELEMÓVEL     91- 3216-1359
O  INTERNAMENTO             TEVE    LUGAR       NO   HOSPITAL        Hospitalis         Núcleo        Hospitalar          Barueri
DATA     (     02/02/19 / /        ) E HORA      (    09:00 :  pm   ) DA   ALTA    HOSPITALAR
IDENTIFICAÇÃO    BANCÁRIA
SWIFT  BIC: | B | R | A | S B | R | R | J | S | D | R | |
All Sites                                                                                             65          1,685,210       67%
Urinary bladder                                                                                              73            76,960        77%
Gallbladder*                                                                                               72             11,420       18%
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia                                                                                              71            18,960        82%
Lung & bronchus                                                                                               70           224,390        17%
Myeloma                                                                                                69            30,330        47%
Colon & rectum                                                                                               68           134,490        65%
Acute myeloid leukemia                                                                                               67            19,950        26%
Esophagus                                                                                                67             16,910       18%
Prostate                                                                                              66           180,890        99%
Small intestine                                                                                             65            10,090        66%
Chronic myeloid leukemia                                                                                              64             8,220        63%
Kidney & renal pelvis                                                                                             64            62,700        73%
Liver & intrahepatic bile duct                                                                                           63            39,230        17%
Melanoma  of the skin                                                                                              63            76,380        92%
Ovary                                                                                               63            22,280        46%
Uterine corpus                                                                                              62            60,050        82%
Eye & orbit                                                                                              61              2,810       82%
Brain & other nervous system                                                                                             58            23,770        33%
Uterine cervix                                                                                             49            12,990        68%
Bones & joints                                                                                              42             3,300        67%
Hodgkin lymphoma                                                                                                 38             8,500        86%
Acute lymphocytic leukemia                                                                                              14             6,590        68%
Age at diagnosis (years)
0-14          15-29         30-49          50-64          65+
Credit Card Type:          AMEX            MC            Visa
CVV  (Security Code):
Nome   (ou Razão Social):
CNPJ(ou  CPF):                                       Inscrição Estadual:
Sócio/Titular/Responsável:                                           Telefone:
CPF:                                                                 Identidade/Órgão   Expedidor:
This IMMEDIATE    CEASE  AND  DESIST  ORDER   is issued to:
Address  – 619 High Street, Dedham  MA  02026
American  Express       Cartão N.º:
Diners                  Nome:
Elo                     Validade:
HiperCard               Código Identif.:
Moeda:         R$ - Real      US$ - Dolar                          N.º. de Parcelas:
Entrada  + Tx. de Embarque:                              Valor da Parcela:
Total da Venda:
o término do tratamento.
A) Nome  do Segurado                                                     B) Data do Nascimento
C) Sexo         D) Cor                E) Estado Civil             F) Naturalidade
G) Nacionalidade           H) Profissão                          I) CPF/MF          Controle
1  J) Doc. Identificação - Tipo Nº Documento     Órgão Exp.   UF    Data Emissão    Validade
M) Bairro                                     N) Cidade                    O) CEP        P) UF
A) Data do Acidente                             B) Data do primeiro atendimento médico:
8
Hospital ou clínica onde foi prestada a assistência médica:
9  A) Nome                                                       B) Localidade
10 A) Nome                                            B) Especialidade
Tipos e duração do tratamento fisioterápico:
C) Nome   do Médico                                                            D) CRM
E) Endereço  do consultório (ou outros)                                        F) DDD   - Telefone
G) Bairro                                     H) Cidade                        I) CEP        J) UF
Tl-201  washout  rate CALCULATED       lv end-diastolic volume index
Carvedilol IMPROVES      left ventricular function
Name:           John  Inman                         Social Security number: 361-42-5170
Address: 24511  SW   217th  Ave
Member   Signature:                                                Date: 05/10/2019
receiving deposits electronically)                          to electronic deposits)
   Pension                                                  Contact  your employer  or other payor directly with the information on this form.
   Dividend/Investment  Income
   Supplemental  Security Income  (SSI)                                                                            a                branch       you
   Railroad Retirement                               Call 1-877-772-5772  (1-312-751-4701   TTY)              for New  Enrollments only, you can visit
www.godirect.org
   Civil Service Retirement                          Call 1-888-767-6738  (1-800-878-5707   TTY)               or call Go Direct at 1-800-333-1795.
(Office of Personal Management)
   Veterans  Compensation   and  Pension                Call 1-877-838-2778   (1-800-829-4833   TTY), or visit a MIDFLORIDA   Branch  near you.
Contact  the agency  directly. Or call Go Direct at 1-800-333-1795
Step    3:  Monitor     Your    Account
Name   (please print) Lorraine Peluso                                         I.D. # 2538971
Make  Model  of Vehicle  GMC  Terrain SLE1
S.P.O.  -                 On-campus   residence (building/room)  -
Off Campus   address (if applicable) 750 Woodcrest Dr Gaylord, MI 49735     Phone  (989)728-9711
Cell  Phone  (231)832-5521
Type:                Permit Number:                Expires:          Issued by: Michael Weaver
Registartion              248                       08/08/2023                Date: 10/05/2019
Green*            Libertarian*               Natural Law Party*
Variable                         Mean   (SD)   Mean   (SD)  Mean     t (df)     p       Cohen’s
Pre-          Post-        Diff.                       d
Able  to   build  positive  and  3.92 (0.91)   4.44 (0.71)  0.520    3.38**     .003    0.64
healthy         mentor/mentee                               (0.15)   (24)
Have    sufficient   skills  to  3.76 (0.83)   4.24 (0.72)  0.480    3.12**     .005    0.62
successfully  mentor    college                             (0.15)   (24)
Able    to    use    mentoring   3.68 (1.07)   4.44 (0.71)  0.760    3.61**     .001    0.84
strengths and weaknesses
services/ facilities/ personnel                             (0.27)   (24)
Overall      confidence      in  4.06 (0.56)   4.53 (0.62)  0.471    3.77**     .002    0.80
Believe      mentoring      for  4.92 (0.28)   4.88 (0.33)  0.040    0.57 (24)  .574    --
important to their success
Management  Faculty Research                                  Management, Marketing and MIS
CPF:      63562782420                        RG:  43.524.061-4
Órgão  de  Lotação:  Instituto Federal de Educação,   Ciência  e Tecnologia   Baiano
Campus:    Salvador Campus
Cargo  Efetivo: Ainda   não  definido
Função:  Qual?   Criação de estruturas de rede                  FG   (  )   CD   (  )
Breve  descrição  das atividades:
Card  Type:    MasterCard      Visa    American  Express     Discover
Card  Number:    372543097401003
Billing Address:  18  Conway    St, Shelburne   Falls, MA, 01370,   USA
Phone:   978-618-0151     x901                         Email:  donald.will@gmail.com
I authorize Southern Arkansas  University to charge my credit card for the one-time fee(s) checked below (), on or
after the date indicated:
  $50  for FedEx courier service                    $  500            for Donation
The  total amount charged to my account  will be US$ 400
(Signature)                                      (Date)
Remote   Learning Resources  for English as a Second Language  (ESL)
The New  Jersey Department   of Education (NJDOE)  has gathered  multiple resources for educators and  families of
English Language  Learners, including a list of digital resources for content areas, from local school districts in New
Contact  information
ELL@doe.nj.gov.  We  look forward  to our continued partnership  to support New  Jersey’s ELLs.
c:  Members,   State Board of Education
NJDOE  Staff
Garden  State Coalition of Schools
Name
(Please Print)   William Kirby
Date of Birth                                       Phone  Number
(M/D/Year)      3/11/1994                                            (616)     678-5380
Email Address
(Required)      wkirby@dunedinfl.net
Signature                                                               Date 10/05/2019
Planned  Parenthood  Mar  Monte  Use Only
MRN   847401                                  Patient  ID Verified By William Pickrum
Child’s Name                                        Date of Birth
Child’s Name                                        Date of Birth
Child’s Name                                        Date of Birth
Nome  Completo                  Vínculo*
dos Beneficiários          (Grau de Relacionamento)   CPF         % de Indenização**
Identificação    do  Paciente:
Nome:     Arthur  Pesquisa
Endereço:     R. Gen.   Canabarro,     485   - Maracana,    Rio  de  Janeiro,   RJ,  20271-204,     Brazil                         Telefone:      +5598988578047
Student’s Name:    Megan  Wepfer
Mother’s Name   (Maiden Name):      Renee Cooper
Phone:  (248)628-2538                       Email:  mwepfer@madeirabeachfl.gov
Grade  & School Name:   8th, Morgantown High School
Eu  Rose  de Freitas                                                                   ,
Dados  da concessionária:
Razão  Social: Banco Itaú Unibanco
Bairro: -
Assinatura do Aluno                                    Assinatura do Orientador
Student       Name:
Teacher/Grade:
William Kirby / 10th
Parent      Name:
Mark Walters
(517)629-2900
Parent      Contact       Number:
(734)242-9011
Device      Brand:
Apple  Inc.
Model      Number:
a1586
Device      Type:
Ipad
Device     Mac    Address:
6A:EB:82:65:D9:F0
*MAC  ADDRESS MUST  BE LEGIBLE AND EXACT  *
• Aerobics  classes         •  Dance  lessons           • Football
• Weight   Watchers®        •  Kickboxing               • Hockey
and  Jenny  Craig®      •  Baseball                 • Soccer
• Sports  camps                  virtual races          • Volleyball
• Swim   lessons            •  Gymnastics               • And   more!
Subscriber’s last name                                          First name                         Middle  initial
Wirth                                                           Bruce
Subscriber ID # (located on the front of your Fallon ID card)    Telephone  number
Activity/item   for  reimbursement**
Type  of activity/item                      Program/gym/name/retailer                    Benefit year     Amount   requested
Exercise                                   Gym                                          2020            2000
o   A copy  of any/all applicable health club contracts, personal fitness trainer agreements or a copy of the registration
o   Dated  original receipts or copies of bank/credit card statements showing  the charge for membership,   classes or
Fallon will only reimburse for the amount reflected on these receipts/statements.  When  paying  by check, please
Also, a brochure  from the health club, facility or program may be requested.
Please consult your tax advisor if you have questions.) Please allow 4-6 weeks from  receipt for reimbursements.
Reimbursement    check  should be made   to (check one):
(Street Address,  Apt/Unit  #,  City, State,  &   Zip)
Gender:      Male     ☐        Female      ☐
(Date of Birth)
(Required)
Known   Social  URLS   (optional)
(Required)
Clínica Veterinária:   Hospital  Sirio Libanes
Código do convênio:    88794
Médico  Veterinário(a): Julio Milko                                     CRMV:     8879
Telefone para contato:    (98) 98910-3540                               Fax:      +55  98  99996-4501
Nome   do Animal:       Alex
Proprietário:         Mauricio   Machado
Espécie:       -                                               Raça:    brasileiaro
Histórico Clínico:     NA
□    Contagem  de Plaquetas                    □    Cultura Micológica
□    Pesquisa de Hemoparasitas                 □    Cultura de Ouvido
□    Pesquisa de Babesia sp                    □    Antibiograma
□    Citologia                                 □    Pesquisa de Ectoparasitas
□    Perfil Renal
□    Perfil Hepático
□    Perfil:
1.   Após a realização de exames   e cuidadosas avaliações fui informado da necessidade  e indicação do procedi-
mento cirúrgico para amputação  do membro   acima descrito;
2.   Recebi todas as informações  necessárias relacionadas ao  referido procedimento, a técnica a ser utilizada, os
riscos de realizá-la ou não, os seus benefícios, possíveis intercorrências, eventuais complicações e, também,
detalhadamente  respondidas  e as minhas dúvidas foram  esclarecidas satisfatoriamente;
3.   Fui informado que, eventualmente,  em  decorrência de  situações ainda não  diagnosticadas ou de  complica-
ções emergenciais, inesperadas  e não discutidas ou previstas, poderá ser necessário qualquer outro procedi-
sanguínea, conforme  o caso;
amputado,  conforme  a necessidade, dependendo   do grau e extensão  da lesão, visando o melhor e mais ade-
5.   Tenho  consciência que, apesar da evolução da medicina  e da perícia do médico, não existe qualquer garantia
de resultado do tratamento e que todo tipo de procedimento  cirúrgico para amputação  de membros   pode  ter
complicações  inesperadas, risco de sequelas graves, incapacidade permanente  e até de morte;
6.   Prestei ao médico todas as informações  relativas à saúde e hábitos do paciente, presentes e passadas, clíni-
cas e cirúrgicas, inclusive as medicações em uso ou  já utilizadas, e fui avisado que qualquer omissão ou in-
formação equivocada  poderá  trazer graves prejuízos ou comprometer o resultado do procedimento;
School: Lincoln Elementary  School          Grade: A
Other directions for use: None
Possible side effects: None                              Emergency  Action:                     or    911
1.  David   Bowen                                                   Friend
(Print Name)                    (Sign Name)                    (Relationship)
2.  Patrick Clarke                                                  Friend
(Print Name)
254   - 049   - 770          03-05-2020
(Employee Signature)          (Social Security Number)               (Date)
When   any  of the authorized   individuals  listed above  contact  GMR    Associates,
they  will be required  to verify the employee’s   Social  Security  Number.
This  authorization    will remain   in effect until modified    or rescinded    in
Published: 03/01/2017                                    Received: 31/08/2016
ecancer 2017, 11:709 DOI: 10.3332/ecancer.2017.709
Applicant’s Name:
Social Security Number:
My  signature authorizes release of the requested information on this inquiry.
Signature of Applicant/Resident                              Date
Type Of Card
Card Number
Expiration Date                               (Format:00/00)
Name   On Card
Billing Address
Country
Fax
Email
Comments
First                                                    Last                                                    Public Educator  ID or
Last 4 digits of SSN
08      /  09    / 2019
Hamilton   High  School
College/University Name
Electronics                                                  Networking
wkirby@dunedinfl.net
Email Address
( 616   ) 678-5380 -                         https://www.linkedin.com/in/william-kirby-a002ab2a/
Phone Number                                Student’s LinkedIn Profile
Date of Birth
213627057371289649801008
Bank Name:    Chase   bank           Bank Phone  Number:  (412) 336-7532
Account  Identifier :                                          (ie; Work Order  # / Invoice # / Account #)
You  can also fax back to: 501-982-4876 or send scanned copies (PDF) via Email w/attachments  to
PLEASE    MAKE   SURE   TO  PROVIDE    ALL   INFORMATION      REQUIRED!
DATA
1-SIASG                            1- INCLUSÃO
2- ALTERAÇÃO
3- EXCLUSÃO
4- TROCA   DE  SENHA     Nº DO  DOCUMENTO
1. SOLICITAÇÃO      DE  CADASTRAMENTO
1- NOME COMPLETO                                                         2- CPF
Ana   Cristina  Reif  de Paula                                            063464204-96
3-NOME PREFERENCIAL                    4- CARGO/FUNÇÃO                   5 - LOTAÇÃO
6- UNIDADE GESTORA                                                       7- CÓDIGO
8- ENDEREÇO E EMAIL
anareif@petrobras.com.br
(98) 98402-1128                      Alessandro   Vieira
1.2. ATRIBUTOS       DE   CREDENCIAMENTO
Rafael   Barbastefano
2. CREDENCIAMENTO             ( PARA     USO    DO   CADASTRADOR             )
14- NOME  DO CADASTRADOR                                              15- DATA  DO CREDENCIAMENTO
17- GRUPO  DE DDM  CONCEDIDO    (EXTRATOR   DE  DADOS)
18- OBSERVAÇÃO                                     19- ASSINATURA   DO CADASTRADOR
APPROVAL
10
9                                                                          1 NEW
Cancer 7
3
No   1             2
0            0                          0      1                                                          1
0
75    ToTAl UNSUCCESSFUl DRUgS | 3  ToTAl APPRovED MEDICINES
IDENTIFICAÇÃO
NOME  DO PACIENTE:  Geraldo Coen
DATA  DE NASCIMENTO:  0/02/1971
CPF OU  RG: 15376410854 / 43.524.045-6
NOME  DA MÃE  DO PACIENTE: Monica Herz
NOME  DO RESPONSÁVEL    PELO PACIENTE:  Thomas Leitz
CPF OU  RG DO RESPONSÁVEL:   92584560410  / 36.587.854-6
NOME  DO MÉDICO:  Eduardo Kugelmas
NOME  DO ENFERMEIRO:   Luiz F. C da Silva
COREN:
(   ) outros
Matrícula    SIAPE:     6524789                      Situação:       Ativo(     )      Aposentado(          )      Pensionista(        )
Bairro:                             Cidade: Angra dos  Reis       Estado: RJ CEP: 23953-030
Telefone: (98) 98402-1128            E-mail: anareif@petrobras.com.br
(b) to other  researchers?
()            ()            ()            ()           0)
1             2             3            4             5
of  no                                                extremely
importance                                              important
Mlustrates potential applications
No  applications  described
How   easy  is the paper to understand?
1             2             3             4             5
Very  hard to               Average  for                Very easy to
understand                   academic                  understand
journals
Is the title descriptive and short?
Yes
No  (suggest  new  title)
Is the abstract complete  and correct?
No  (suggest  changes)
Can  the paper be  reduced  in length?
Yes  (by what  percentage?        °%)
ss
If yes, please provide suggestions  on  how  to reduce length of the  manuscript:
Was  the review  of prior literature adequate?
Yes
Yes
. Does  the paper  follow the ‘Guidelines to Authors’?
Yes
No  (suggest changes)
(1) Exploratory
(2) Single dominant  hypothesis
(3) Multiple hypotheses   (two or more  reasonable  hypotheses)
(b) Descriptive
(4) Describes  methods
(5) Describes  data
(6) Theory  (mathematical   or verbal)
Name:                                                                 SSN:
Birthdate:                                                            Gender: Male         Female
Amount  of Rollover Requested: $
Member   or Beneficiary Signature:                                                     Date:
Account type: (Check  one only*)  401(a)      403(a)       403(b)       408(a)      408(b)       457(b)
Custodian Signature:                                                          Date:
Custodian Printed Name:                                                       Phone  Number:
Autorizamos o Sr.(a) Michael    Edgar    Perlman
FUNÇÃO   (de REGISTRO):   5154152152
SETOR   DE TRABALHO:    Banco
Tipo de exame:
Admissional          Demissional           Periódico           Retorno ao trabalho           Mudança  de função
Dados  da empresa:
Razão  Social: Banco    Bradesco                                                 CNPJ:   07575843000165
Obs.:
O Pagamento  será efetuado através do:          Funcionário              Empresa
Data: 02     / 02     /                 Horário: 10:00
Nome  do aluno: Thomas Leitz
RG:  36.587.854-6                    - Expedido por:
Data do nascimento: 05    / 05   / 1994
Endereço: Av. Amazonas,   5855 - Bloco C – Sala D4 - Gameleira                 Nº 5855
Complemento:                                    Bairro: Belo Horizonte
+55    99236-9548
Telefone:    61                             Celular: -
família dividida pelo número  de  pessoas  que  compõem    a família. Exemplo: 5 pessoas:   Pai, mãe e
três filhos, somente  duas  (digamos  o pai e a  mãe) tem  renda  fixa num  total de R$1.250,00  reais,
Tipo de Benefício              Marque  X       Tipo de Benefício       Marque  X
Projovem adolescente                                 Proteção social básica
Proteção social especial                             Agente jovem
PETI                                                 Seguro Desemprego
Tem    experiência     profissional    na  área   do  curso   que   pretende    estudar?        (   )Sim         (    )Não
CURSO       PRETENDIDO:           Ciências    Sociais
Unidade      ofertante:    (   ) SENAC                (  ) SENAI              (   ) IFPR
Turno:    (   ) Matutino           (   ) Vespertino             (   ) Noturno
Declaro    verdadeiras      as  informações      acima.
Nome   do Usuário                                                    CPF
Andre  Jakurski                                      053697644-92
Função
Endereço
R. Antônio de Albuquerque, 330 - 12nd floor - Savassi Belo Horizonte MG 30112-010
Telefones                                         Fax
+55  98 99608-4062
E-mail
ajakurski@jgp.com.br
2. ATRIBUTOS    PARA  CADASTRO
Nível de acesso
4. TERMO   DE  RESPONSABILIDADE
Declaro  estar ciente do conteúdo  do  Manual  de  Orientação  para Cadastramento   de  Usuário  no
a. Monthly  costs in 2016 US$  (exchange   rate)            b. Monthly  costs in 2016 US$  (purchasing   power
parity)
The  timeframe of exposure  assessment  in observational studies will be recorded as follows:
-Exposure  assessment  refers to a period before primary breast cancer diagnosis (childhood,
adolescence, adulthood).
-Exposure  assessment  refers to the period during therapy for primary breast cancer.
EMPLOYEE  ID                   LAST NAME                     FIRST NAME                 MIDDLE NAME
LEVEL (A,B, C)                        HOURLY  RATE                           MAX HOURS/WEEK
EFFECTIVE START DATE               REC #           PS POSITION NUMBER    /   JOB CODE                        END DATE
/
EFFECTIVE START DATE              REC #           PS POSITION NUMBER     /  JOB CODE                        END DATE
/
APPROPRIATE ADMINISTRATOR/APPROVAL NAME          APPROPRIATE ADMINISTRATOR/APPROVAL SIGNATURE               DATE
Driver License  #:                                   State:               Classification:
Operator  and/or  Vehicle  Owner’s  Signature                                                         Date
SIGNED   UNDER   PENALTY    OF UNSWORN     FALSIFICATION    PURSUANT    TO  RSA 641:3
To request the report of a crash that either you and/or your vehicle were involved in, be sent to you or to another individual/entity,
NH   Dept  of Safety, DMV    – FR/Accidents,   23 Hazen  Drive,  Concord,  NH    03305
NAME   Kareem  Boyle
PHONE  (802) 909-1236
kareem.boyle@hotmail.com
PROFESSION   Engineer
PLACE OF BUSINESS  9904 Daniel Dr Fairdale, KY 40118, USA
BUSINESS ADDRESS
TELL US A LITTLE ABOUT YOURSELF   Electrical Engineer
1) Assessment   of outcome  (we added  point b because  interventions like physical activity and
a) independent  blind assessment  *
d) no description
a) yes (more than two  years) *
b) subjects lost to follow up unlikely to introduce bias - small number lost (less than 10
description provided  of those lost) *
c) follow up rate loss more than 10%   and no description of those lost
d) no statement
We  will exclude from  the assessment::
a) truly representative of the average                     (describe) in the community  *
Número  do Banco:                         Nome   do Banco: Banco   do  Brasil
Número  da Agência:                       Nome   da Agência:
Conta-corrente nº: 37406-8                Dígito: 271    Conta-poupança   nº: 30450-6               Dígito: 284
Aluno: Andre  Jakurski                                                    Matrícula: 4009613
Nome                        E-mail           Afiliação     Endereço/telefone
☐ Other
Cardholder Name   (as shown on card): Keith Fogarty
Expiration Date (mm/yy):  12/2016
I, Keith Fogarty           , authorize Sharla Becker               to charge my credit card
(239)             Australia, and New  Zealand                     the highest priced
Setting: official list prices per unit at ex-   lowest priced
Medicine:   31 cancer medicines; all but two    •   28–50%
medicines  (gemcitabine  and  zoledronic            sample)
•   100–200%
•   >200%
Name:                                              DOB:
SSN:
Specific records include:    □ H&P         □  Clinical Notes     □ Treatment  Summary
Start date
Stop  date
Correct  drug name
Number   of doses
Drug  concentration
Drug  volume
Diluent
Volume   of diluent       Overfill        Drug  in overfill
Expiration time
Special  delivery devices (tubing, cassette, container, etc.)
Pharmacist’s  initials                   Date
Does  the student have  any allergies or medical condition?  q    Yes   q     No  If yes, describe:
In the event of an emergency,  we  will attempt to contact you as well as 911 Paramedics.
The  following people are authorized to            Full Name                    Phone Number
Full Name                   Phone  Number                     Full Name                    Phone Number
NAME: us  Bank
GA
2    6    5   3    7    7    9    2   1
DATE:      /     /
NAME(S) ON  BANK  ACCOUNT:  Mark   Walters
SIGNATURE   (CO-HOLDER):
Depositors’ Payee Name
FINANCIAL   INSTITUTION   INFORMATION
Select Your Account Type      □   Checking           □  Savings
DADOS DADOS DADOS DADOS DO DO DO DO CANDIDATO CANDIDATO CANDIDATO CANDIDATO
Cargo/função Cargo/função Cargo/função Cargo/função pretendido: pretendido: pretendido: pretendido: Gerente
N.º N.º N.º N.º da da da da Inscrição: Inscrição: Inscrição: Inscrição: 857932467
CENTRO  DE IDIOMAS DO IFAM /CMC - CIIFAM
EDITAL   Nº005
FORMULÁRIO       DE  INSCRIÇÃO
SERVIDORES    E ALUNOS   DO  IFAM /CMC
CURSO     DE  EXTENSÃO
NOME   DO CURSO:   Cadeia de abastecimento 101
PERFIL   DO  CANDIDATO:
( ) FUNCIONÁRIO     DO IFAM           (   ) ALUNO  DO  IFAM
Nome:   Ana  Cristina Reif de Paula
Sexo:   F( )  M  (  )             Data  de  Nascimento:   01    / 03     / 1996
RG:    55.930.302-6                                  CPF:  063464204-96
Nome   do  Pai: Arthur Pesquisa
Nome   da  Mãe:  Monica Herz
N º SIAPE   (Técnico  Administrativo  ou  Professor): 6895731
Campus    que  realizará o Curso: Campus   Norte
OBSERVAÇÕES      IMPORTANTES
Ao efetuar a matrícula, o candidato:
1. Assume  o compromisso   de cumprir  a programação   do curso, acatar as normas  disciplinares estabelecidas no
1. Regimento Assume o do compromisso Centro de de Idiomas cumprir do a programação IFAM e nas demais do curso, legislações acatar as de normas ensino, disciplinares respeitar as estabelecidas normas de frequência no
Regimento e avaliação do do IFAM curso, e bem nas como demais as orientações legislações de do ensino, coordenador respeitar do mesmo; as normas de freqüência e avaliação do curso,
bem 2. Responsabiliza-se como as orientações por do todo coordenador e qualquer do dano mesmo; que vier causar aos bens patrimoniais do IFAM, arcando, portanto,
2. com Responsabiliza-se o seu ressarcimento por todo ou reposição; e qualquer dano que vier causar aos bens patrimoniais do IFAM, arcando, portanto,
3. 2ª A via Coordenação o participante de pagará Cursos uma de Extensão taxa de R$ emitirá 10,00 para (dez o reais). participante, sem ônus, a 1ª via do Certificado. A partir
da 5. O 2ª via candidato o participante está ciente pagará de uma que o taxa pedido de R$ de 10,00 cancelamento (dez reais), de que matrícula será recolhida do curso através somente de GRU poderá (Guia ocorrer de
Recolhimento mediante autorização da União); por escrito do ministrante e com o conhecimento da Coordenação do Centro de Idiomas até
mediante  autorização por escrito do ministrante e com o conhecimento  da CCE   até o 2º (segundo) dia de aula do
Comparison   of Performance  in Basic Skills                           Basic on CST  ELA test
Teacher  Evaluation of Curriculum Mastery                 Grades  K-5 Basic “3” in Language Arts and Math
Grades  6-12 C or better in English and Math
Nome    do Titular do Cartão  (igual ao  cartão): Tasso    Jereissati
Código   de Segurança    (os três últimos  dígitos impressos   no verso  do cartão,  após  o nº deste):   285
Telefone   para contato:  +5598982965894
(  ) Agência/Operadora    de  Turismo           (  ) Cia. Aérea
Moeda:     ( ) R$ - Real     ( ) US$  - Dólar          Nº de  parcelas:
Entrada:              R$ 50000                                  Valor da Parcela:      R$ 4000
Declaração
através   do meu   cartão  de  credito  $500000                  Número    614.925-0                                      , as
2-) Pericles    Silva  Pereira                                  7-) -
3-) Otavio   Pontes                                             8-) -
4-) Marcio   Trigueiro                                          9-) -
Nome    do Titular do Cartão  (igual ao  cartão): Tasso    Jereissati
Telefone   para contato:  +5598982965894
Cód.  Aut.: 285                                  Data:  08/04/2019
Moeda:     ( ) R$ - Real     ( ) US$  - Dólar          Nº de  parcelas:
Entrada:              R$ 50000                                  Valor da Parcela:      R$ 4000
Declaração
através   do meu   cartão  de  credito  $500000                  Número    614.925-0                                      , as
parcelas   do financiamento   de  viagem  adquirida  junto a CVC   Turismo,   para os seguintes   passageiros:
VIAJANTES     (PARA    MAIS   NOMES     UTILIZE   O VERSO)
1-) Mauricio   Machado                                          6-) -
3-) Otavio   Pontes                                             8-) -
Course Name   and Number                                      College/University
I am submitting the following for review:                      Syllabus                            Lab Syllabus
Departmental      Evaluation
Departmental  Adviser or Chair (please print)                 Department
Please check one:
This course should count as a major elective in my department, and should  be
transfer equivalent code 01:        :EC. (enter your department  code)
department,  and will be given the transfer equivalent course code TR:T01:EC.
DEAN’S  OFFICE  USE ONLY                                                                                  Rev 12/15
opy     codon
haplotype
svmnt
[   ff  VOSviewer
Cluster # 1 (red) = 138 items
Chloroquine-resistant                                                                                                         15
Chloroquine-resistant  P. falciparum                                                                                          11
CQR   (chloroquine resistance)                                                                                               38
pfcrt mutation                                                                                                                15
Protein                                                                                                                      92
Antifolate drug resistance                                                                                                   25
dhps gene                                                                                                                    33
pfcrt gene                                                                                                                   39
pfmdr1  gene                                                                                                                 35
Cluster # 3 (blue) = 89 items
Artemisinin  resistance                                                                                                      90
Sub-Saharan  Africa                                                                                                          23
Thai-Myanmar    border                                                                                                        10
Papua                                                                                                                         15
Visit Information:
Vital Signs:
5" 10'                                                     70
Wt: 151.2lbs  Ht:          BP: 80        HR:           RR:           Temp:
Verify Allergies: Anaphylaxis Allergic Reactions
Verify Menses:   N/A
Verify Smoking:  N/A
Verify Medications:  panadol   extra
Progress Note:
No  Comments
Meds  and Orders:
TO:        Bid Responders
DATE:      May 20, 2020
SUBJECT:   Licensed Structural Engineers As– Need                              Addendum
100,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                           86,765                                         Osteopathic
90,000
70,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2014
50,000
40,000                                                          29,461                          36,999
30,000                          22,540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Profession
20,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Medical
10,000
Department Name:                                           Department Address:
Department Contact:                                        Campus Phone Number:
Interdepartmental Invoice #
Processed by:_                                               Date:_
Near   term                                      Midpoint           Contribution      by                   Near  term                                      Midpoint            Contribution      by
1375                     Put                   0.125              0.0000003306                            1325                     Put                     0.15              0.0000032041
1380                     Put                    0.15              0.0000003938                            1350                     Put                     0.15              0.0000020577
.                       .                       .                       .                                  .                       .                       .                       .
.                       .                       .                       .                                  .                       .                       .                       .
2095                    Call                     0.2              0.0000002278                            2125                     Call                    0.1               0.0000005536
2125                    Call                     0.1              0.0000005536                            2200                     Call                   0.075              0.0000007748
T          ii 2 e R T 1 Q ( K i )                       0.018495                                          T    i      2     2 T Q ( K i )                         0.018838
1  i                                                                                                     2       KK
Name    of Passenger:
Salutation:   MR.      First Name:     Rafal                    Middle   Initial: J.    Last  Name:      Cieslak                Suffix:   Jr
(Mr., Mrs., Rev.)                                    (Please print as it appears on Passport)                               (Jr., Sr.)
Cardholder       Name:      MR.     Rafal     Cieslak
TELEPHONE   NUMBER:  (     )
E-MAIL ADDRESS:                               @utmem.edu
DOLLAR  AMOUNT   REQUESTED:   $
SEGURADO          (   )                                                                   BENEFICIÁRIO          (     )
SINISTRO    Nº                          8357                              DATA    DO  SINISTRO          09/09/10               RAMO         Itau Unibanco
BEM   SINISTRADO                    -                                     APÓLICE                        SUR716.003
Nome             Andre    Jakurski
CPF              053697644-92                                   Profissão        professora
Bairro                                                          CEP               30112-010
Cidade           Belo Horizonte                                 UF                MG
Telefone       +55  98 99608-4062                               E-mail            ajakurski@jgp.com.br
Nome  do Banco        Número  do   Número da Agência      Dígito da     Número  da Conta Corrente/Poupança Dígito conta corrente/
Itau Unibanco                                             8532
(68) 3212-1311                          26224-2                         3621
(  ) Não desejo informar
(  ) Até R$ 3.000,00      (  ) De R$  3.000,01  a R$ 5.000,00      (  ) De R$  5.000,01 a R$  10.000,00
PEP?   * (   ) sim  (   ) não  (    ) Relacionamento    Próximo
anos, no  Brasil ou em  territórios estrangeiros, cargos, empregos  ou funções  públicas relevantes, bem   como  os seus  familiares,
representantes  e outras pessoas   de seu relacionamento   próximo.
Conforme   determina  a Circular SUSEP    445/12, a entrega  deste formulário preenchido   é obrigatória no processo  de regulação
de sinistro e não implica no  pagamento   de indenização  pela  Seguradora,  o qual poderá  ser realizado somente   após  a análise
do sinistro. A Circular pode ser consultada no  Site da SUSEP   - www.susep.gov.br
TODOS    OS  CAMPOS     DO  FORMULÁRIO      SÃO   DE  PREENCHIMENTO        OBRIGATÓRIO
BACKGROUND                                                                                                                                                              3
TOTAL       HEALTHCARE              SPENDING          FOR     CANCER          PATIENTS                                                                              4
Monthly      Total    Healthcare       Spending                                                                                                            4
Total    Healthcare       Spending       by   Service     Category                                                                                         5
Cumulative        Healthcare       Spending       by   Service     Category                                                                                8
OUT-OF-POCKET                COSTS        OF   CANCER          PATIENTS                                                                                             9
Patient     Out-of-Pocket        by   Service     Category                                                                                                11
CONCLUSIONS              AND      LIMITATIONS                                                                                                                          14
DATA                                                                                                                                                               16
METHODOLOGY                                                                                                                                                        16
APPENDIX          A:  SERVICE         CATEGORY            DESCRIPTIONS                                                                                                 18
Chemotherapy,           Chemotherapy           Administration,        and    Related     Drugs                                                            18
Hospital      Inpatient                                                                                                                                   18
APPENDIX          B:  CODE       SET     DETAIL                                                                                                                        19
Radiation       Therapy                                                                                                                                   19
CEP/Código  postal                   Cidade                                           Estado                               País
30120-060                              Horizonte                                       MG                                   Brazil
Banco                                            Nome  da agência                                                          Código da agência
614.925-0                                         Corrente           Poupança                1° Titular        2° Titular         3° Titular        4° Titular
37004  - Manutenção de residentes (apenas para terceiros)                     67500  - Disponibilidade no exterior (remessa para a própria conta)
V.Nov17   USO                 EXCLUSIVO                                        DO             BANCO
CEP/Código   Postal       Informe o código de endereçamento   postal da sua residência
País                      Informe o país onde  reside
Telefone                  Informe o código DDD   e o número do  telefone para contato
RG/Identidade             Informe o número  e órgão emissor  do documento  de identidade
CPF                       Informe o número  da sua  inscrição no Cadastro de Pessoas Físicas da Secretaria da Receita Federal
Nome   da agência         Informe o nome  da agência  onde possui conta
Código  da agência        Informe o código, inclusive dígito verificador, da agência onde possui conta
Número   da conta         Informe o número  da conta, inclusive o dígito verificador
Poupança:   se for conta Poupança ou Poupança-Poupex.
Titularidade              Informe a ordem  de cadastramento  do seu  nome  na sua conta:
- se conta conjunta, se primeiro titular;
2o Titular: - para conta conjunta, se segundo titular;
3o Titular: - para conta conjunta, se terceiro titular;
4o Titular: - para conta conjunta, se quarto titular.
Finalidade                Informe o código que melhor representa a finalidade (motivo) do recebimento das ordens de pagamento:
37004  - Transferências correntes - Manutenção de residentes; ou
67500  - Depósitos e disponibilidades - Disponibilidade no exterior
Mesh       Mesh     Mesh
30 Minutes    45 Minutes        60 Minutes                                     0.2T    0.6T   1T
#2
#6
#7
Street and Number                             City               State                 Zip
Phone:  (231)271-3881                                        Email: rcieslak@largo.com
Check  if you are a military:  spouse  dependent    Name  of military spouse/parent: Robert Comi
Is military person:       Active  Duty             Retired         Reserve   / National Guard
  Other  Veteran
CURRENT     MILITARY   PERSONNEL:     Please  present  this form in person  at Plumb  Hall 108 with military ID
DoD  ID or DD  Form # 1019673583                  on card                     Expiration Date
  CAC   Card Viewed  by Registrar’s Office Staff          Staff Member  Signature:
DoD  ID or DD  Form  # N/A                  on card                                    Expiration date
  ID Viewed  by Registrar’s Office Staff                  Staff Member  Signature:
Students unable to present their military ID in-person, please contact adingman@emporia.edu
Date:                                           Signature   of Student:
I am aware  that if I am terminated or resign from the District, I will have a maximum  of 7 days to retrieve content from my District
mapped   drives and email accounts  before these accounts  are deactivated.
12/4/2020
Last Name                             First                      Middle  Initial
Last Name                             First                      Middle  Initial
February  7-8, 2001                                           Savannah,  Georgia
!!! URGENT…      INDUSTRY      RESOLUTION       REQUIRED      !!!
Diebold                            Aaron                                          (616)281-1323
AT & T
Company
417  Franklin St                                Denver                     CO
Address                                         City                       State/Providence
Fax #                                           Email Address
NOTE:  IN THE EVENT  YOU NEED  TO CANCEL,  PLEASE  SEE THE  CANCELLATION   POLICY  BELOW.
Pre-Registration  Fee  (before January   29, 2001)    US  $450
Payment:
?American  Express          ?  MasterCard            ?  Visa            ?  Check  (payable to ATIS)
Authorized Signature
Please send  registration & payment to:  Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS)
Please  send  registration & payment   to:   Alliance for Telecommunications  Industry Solutions (ATIS)
1200  G Street, NW, Suite 500
Attention: Megan   Hayes, Phone:  (202) 662-8653
Or fax this information to: (202) 393-5481 (secure fax)
the participant may  only transfer the fee paid  to an unregistered  participant from the same
You  may  pre-register through  January  29, 2001.   The  meeting  fee for those who  pre-                   company.
register is $450.  After January  29, 2001  the meeting  fee will be $475.  All meeting
material is prepared  in advance  for those who   pre-register and may  be  picked up  at the                Address   cancellation notifications to: ATIS, 1200  G Street NW,   Suite 500, Washington    DC
registration desk.                                                                                           20005   Attention: Megan   Hayes,  Fax  # (202) 393-5481,   Phone  (202)  662-8653
Cancellation  Policy:                                                                                        ADA   Compliance:   It is the policy of ATIS to ensure that all of our activities are accessible
to qualified persons  with disabilities in accordance  with the Americans   with Disabilities
dollar ($15.00) processing  fee, if ATIS is notified in writing of the cancellation prior to                 description  and attach.
2012-2014:   Gilead reported
sofosbuvir         (Sovaldi)                                        R&D  costs for sofosbuvir-
based  regimens  as US$  880.3
assumed   a "price per cure" of USS.                            estimated   US$ 216.1  million        bottle because  each  bottle contains 28
for final R&D)
80 000 through  benchmarking    with                                                                  tablets, with anticipated discounts  e.g. 50%
other direct acting antivirals, with a                                                                for U.S. Department   of Veteran Affairs
“convenience   bump"  by 8%  when
Feb—Jul 2013: Gilead assessed
an all-oral, single tablet came to
value  drivers, benchmarks,
market
Jan 2012: Gilead  Sciences              contracting  practices, payer
FDA approved
billion                                 payers’ opinions                                      for Sovaldi of US$ 12.4 billion
|
|                                                                                                  |
:
2008-2011                |  2012                                       2013                                       2014      2014-2015
2008-2011:   Pharmasset   spent         Nov  2012: Gilead's executive
US$  62.4 million on R&D  of           noted  a USA price of "$58k vs.
115 000 and  effects on payers, physicians and
PSI-7977  (subsiquently                 $65k" and  25%  lower price in               |
patients, competitive and  broader  stakeholders
sofosbuvir)                                                    Europe
May  2013: Gilead’s consultant  IMS         IMS noted  that sofosbuvir would  benefit from
benchmark   prices per course      90 payers showing   that expenditure  on   subsequently   compel  payers  to choose a single
US$  72 000 but did not            conditions, multiple scle rosis,
cancer      revenue
consider  price >US$ 50 000  as    and HIV.
Rosemeire       Lauretti
Número   do cartão: 285687314                                  CPF: 448.017.349-87
RUA                                                                       medicamento
Filial:     JAPÃO                                              Departamento:
E-mail: rose@amazoniaeletronorte.com.br                        Telefone: (    ) 65-  3624-1626
FORMULÁRIO             DE    SOLICITAÇÃO             DE    REEMBOLSO              SEGUROS          SAÚDE
Claudio     Haddad                                                                           +55  98  99221-8121
Empresa S.A.                                                                                Telefone Celular com DDD
GWID                                                            GW   Email                                    @gwmail.gwu.edu
SEAS  Major                                                     2nd Maj / Minor
Company   Name
Company   Division or
Department                                                            Supervisor Name
For Advising Office Use Only                                                                                                           Submit  forms  to:
SEAS   Undergraduate   Student Services and Advising
Approved   by  Faculty  Advisor:  Signature                                                                                      seasadvising@gwu.edu
Pessoais
Nome                 Completo                                                                                                      Grau              de        Parentesco                                            %       de         Participação
irmão                                                                                                                                                      Acidentes
Ana                  Cristina                            Reif                 de            Paula                                                                                                                                                                              25                                                                                 -
Grupo
-
Dados                 Pessoais                                                                                                                                                                                  15.414.003.644.2009-10
Nome                Arthur                     Pesquisa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Processo
Department
Credit Card Information:
Visa                 Master Card                Discover        Amex
Cardholder's Name:  (please print)  Michael Gordon
Cardholder's
Date:                03-03-2020
V-code:                        (On the back side of the card, in the signature block, there
• Identify causes of efflorescence  using the included  trouble-      • For walls without an  air space, separate  the brick wythe
etration resistance                                                 • Store masonry   materials off the ground  and cover  with
• Consider  materials that contain fewer  soluble salts                 waterproof  materials to protect them  from groundwater
• Coatings  are not recommended     as the sole treatment  to           and  precipitation
control efflorescence                                               • Protect unfinished  masonry  from  weather  during construc-
Name                                                                     Student Number
Enrollment  Date                                 Time                          Degree:    BA  □     BME   □    BM   □
Instrument / Voice                                             Applied  Instructor
Credit hours of applied lessons ( check degree plan): 2 □ 3 □       4 □
CADASTRO DE EMAIL           ALTERAÇÃO DE EMAIL               DESBLOQUEIO
DAYS   OF WEEK:     05
CLASS:    Math
PERIOD:    Summer 2018
BSI TEACHER:     Dean Scharmen
DAYS   OF WEEK:     02
Pride                        Tradition                     excellence
It Takes More To Be A Bulldog
BSI TEACHER:     Lorin Kornijtschuk
PERIOD:    Summer 2018
BSI TEACHER:     Dean Scharmen
DAYS   OF WEEK:     02
It Takes More To Be A Bulldog
30/04/1996                                                        03173940458
Nascimento       /      /            RG   49.050.809.1                       CPF
Bairro:                                                .Cidade:  Curitiba                .CEP:  80240-070
03087750409-                  +55                                                                           -
Tel. Residencial     (   ) 98982965894         Cel.  (   )     -             Tel.  Contato:   (   )
E-mail    juan.zeballos@gmail.com                                                Idade  Atual
RG    30.802.960.4                    e  CPF    03087750409                        Cel.  +55    98   98471-5918
Violão  (  )                                 Flauta Doce (  )
Tarde
3-  turma   das    14:00 as 14:50 hrs        4- turma   das    15:00 as 15:50 hrs
Name                                    Signature                                   Date
John  Inman                                                                         10/05/2019
Department  Supervisor                                                              Date
User Acceptance
By signing below, I acknowledge that I have read and agree to abide by the Social Media Policy.
William  Pickrum                                                               10/05/2019
Name                                    Signature                              Date
Public Relations and Marketing Office Use Only
Contact Name:        Aurea   Feest                      Tel #:    586 443 7340 x121  Email:     aurea.feest@hotmail.com
Company/Event   Name:                  Amazon                                     Event Date:       WEPTAC    2016
Guest Name:          Keren    Crona                     Confirmation  #:        5075
Arrival Date:             04-03-2020                    Departure Date:         07-03-2020
Rate per night:      $500                               + 12.05%  tax plus $2 city occupancy tax
*Date of Birth (MM-DD-YYYY):                         *Gender  (M/F):                        U.S. Social Security Number:
*Email  Address  (up to 45 characters):
(continue to next page)
GRE      General       Test    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  US$102.50                $
GRE      Subject      Test    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  US$75             $
Total     Amount         Enclosed         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      $
RAI             No.  of words        No.  of sentences        No. of paragraphs         Sentences/paragraph          Institutional location
BESP1           149                  5                        2                         2.5                          Brazil
BESP3           156                  5                        2                         2.5                          Brazil
BESP4           489                  14                       5                         2.8                          Brazil
BESP5           928                  30                       7                         4.3                          Brazil
BESP6           215                  5                        2                         2.5                          Brazil
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OFFICIAL  USE  ONLY
PACIENTE: Miguel  Pryor                                                                 PRONTUÁRIO:
INFORMAÇÕES     AO  PACIENTE:
BENEFÍCIOS, DEVIDO À POSSIBILIDADE DE RISCOS MALÉFICOS PARA O FETO.
LIMITADA O MÁXIMO  POSSÍVEL À ÁREA DE INTERESSE.
Health Care  Rights Under   the U.S. Constitution                                                    1
Explicit Rights in the U.S. Constitution                                                         1
The  Right to Health Care  at the Government’s  Expense                                          2
Equal  Protection: Wealth  as a “Suspect Class”                                              4
Exception:  Under  Government    Control                                                     5
Federal Power   to Provide for and Fund  Health Care  Programs                                       6
The  Taxing and  Spending  Power                                                                 7
Federally Funded   Health Care  Programs                                                     8
The  Individual Mandate   to Purchase Health  Insurance Under   the Patient Protection
Lawsuits  Challenging  the Constitutionality of the Individual Health  Insurance
Requirements                                                                              11
Responsável    legal pelo(a) paciente:  juan zeballos
Médico:  Eduardo  Kugelmas
Data  do procedimento    cirúrgico: 12    / 12   / 2012
Olho:  (  ) Direito (  ) Esquerdo  (   ) Ambos  os  olhos  Tipo  de Anestesia:   (  ) Local (   ) Geral
Passo  Fundo  12   / 12   /          Ass. Paciente:
Paciente:       Thomas   Leitz
Médico   responsável:   Luiz F. C da Silva
Attachment     A  - LCD/LCA     Availability   Grid
Rituximab     (Rituxan®  )
ID #             Title          Contractor Type             Contractor                           States
L33394    Drugs and Biologicals, A and B MAC        National Government Services,    CT, IL, ME, MA,  MN,  NH, NY,
(A52452)   Coverage  of, for Label MAC  Part A & B   Inc.                             RI, WI, VT
A57321    Billing and Coding:    A and B MAC        CGS  Administrators, LLC         KY,  OH
Rituximab  -J9311,
Nome:      Claudio  Haddad
Data  de Nascimento:     07/07/1993       Sexo:  Masculino  (  )   Feminino   (   )
Tel. Residencial:  ( 55 ) 98 99221-8121   Tel. Celular: ( )
Instituição:        Avenues   São  Paulo
PROTOCOLO
o Curso de Aprimoramento    em  Fisioterapia Hospitalar na data 11  / 23  / 2020 , sob
número  de Protocolo  1796036
Comissão
Employer  Signature:                                        Date:      12/12/12
Credit Card Number:      4647963840411516
Expiration Date:         08/21
Invoice(s) paid: $5000
Credit Card Type:             Visa         Mastercard       Discover        AmEx
Expiration Date:         08/21
Card  Identification Number (last 3 digits located on the back of the credit card): 621
Intervention       Intervention     Control Events      Control group
Events          group  size                               size
persons
Denominators:
person-years
No. deaths from all
-cause mortality*
cancer*
No. with a primary
No. with a second
recurrence*
Examples
obsessive  compulsive  disorder
Alzheimer   disease, other dementias
Attention deficit disorder
Adjustment   disorders, personality disorders, bereavement,  stress
NOME  DO  CLIENTE ATENDIDO: Benjamim  Cordeiro Costa Junior
CÓDIGO  DO CLIENTE ATENDIDO:                                  CPF: 091.033.093-04
TELEFONE  (CELULAR): 92- 3621-0813
E-MAIL: benjamim.junior@eletrobrasamazonas.com
DATA  DA SOLICITAÇÃO:  08   / 02  / 2019
Detalhamento  do ocorrido (justificando o motivo do atendimento particular):
NOME  DO BANCO: Banco Bradesco     Nº DO BANCO  2853       AGÊNCIA: 3383
CONTA: 17077-9                                       CORRENTE      POUPANÇA
ALUNO:                 Ana     Cristina      Reif    de   Paula
(   ) ALIMENTOS            (   ) INFORMÁTICA            (   ) AGROINDÚSTRIA                (   ) Curso     FIC
FONE:        (98)   98402-1128
> Introduction                                                                                                                  3
> Volatility as a tradable asset: VIX Futures  & Options                                                                        3
> Beyond   the VIX Index                                                                                                        4
> Historical Prices: The  VIX Index and  Other  Volatility Indexes                                                              4
> The  VIX Index Calculation:  Step-by-Step                                                                                     4
>  Step 2: Calculate volatility for both near-term  and  next-term  options                                                 8
>  Step 3: Calculate volatility for both near-term  and  next-term  options  (Cont’d)                                       9
> VIX Index  Filtering Algorithm                                                                                                10
> The  Calculation  of the Final Settlement  Value  for VIX Derivatives                                                         10
> Appendix   1: Complete   SPX  Option  Data Used  in Sample   VIX Index Calculation                                            13
Aspect   Reason   for rejection
Topic   irrelevant topic or topic of local interest only
Newness     papers offers nothing new
steps  weak  methodology   or results
Style  unclear, unfocused  and incoherent  text
Data Quality    flawed design; insignificant sample number;  preliminary findings only
CUSTOMER       (signed by authorized representative)  Customer   Name:
Signature:                                                     Title:  Manager
Print Name:   Joseph   Correa                                  Date:                        02-05-20
Cardholder   Name   (Print):  Margarito Adams
Cardholder   Driver’s License  # (Include issuing state)
Credit  Card  #  371289649801008 **     **         **
Expiration   Date    04/23 /                448
7901 W 52nd Ave #205,Arvada, CO 80002, USA
Print_Name:    Giuseppina Dicki    Signature:
Print_Name:                        Signature:
Student  Information
Peluso                           Lorraine                7952186
Last Name  (Student)           First Name               Student  Identification Number
750   Woodcrest      Dr                                  (231)832-5521
Address                                                 Telephone
Gaylord,   MI,  49735
City, State, ZIP/Postal Code
Last Name                   First Name             Email Address
8520   W  Redwing    Dr  Franklin,  WI  53132       (989)728-9711
Address City, State, ZIP/Postal Code               Telephone
Attorney’s  Name
Firm  Name
Street
City, State, Zip
RE:                                               v.
Subpoena    for                                     ’s Education   Records
Dear                                       :
Identidade: 0343407                              CPF: 098237304-07
Seu aniversário: 04/03/1995                      Estado civil: Solteiro
CEP: 20271-204                        Telefone fixo: +5598988578047    Celular: (98) 3478-1194
SEUS  DADOS    PROFISSIONAIS
Onde  você trabalha? Banco   Santander  S.A
Sua  profissão: Contador
Você  usa uma  língua estrangeira profissionalmente? Qual?   Inglês
SEU   HISTÓRICO    DE  ESTUDO    DE  IDIOMAS
Qual: Inglês                                Onde: Avenues  São  Paulo
Cluster # 1 (red)
21 items                      Ghana   (79), Italy (29), Kenya (112), Madagascar  (45), Malawi   (47), Mali (76), Netherlands  (58), Nigeria (80),
Senegal  (42), South Africa  (47), Sudan  (69), Tanzania  (121), Uganda  (63), United  Kingdom   (518).
13 items                      Portugal  (77), Spain (27), Sweden  (125), USA   (529), Yemen  (10).
Cluster # 3 (blue)            Austria (32), Bangladesh   (60), Cambodia    (203), Congo  (70), Laos  (76), Myanmar   (56), Singapore  (56),
(yellowish  green)            Australia (197), Canada   (47), Colombia   (15), Germany   (109), India (62), Indonesia (86), Israel (16).
7 items
Citação  Bibliográfica:
E-mail: milko_27@yahoo.com
Identificação do Documento
Título do Trabalho:    Engenheiro    elétrico
Número   de  páginas: 200
Palavras-chave:
Name  on Card Marty  Reich
Card Number  4388576010396383
Expiration Date 03-03
Nome    do  estudante
Thomas     Leitz
CPF:                      92584560410                                       Matrícula:   6026133
Telefone:   +55  61  99236-9548                      E-mail:    thomas@leitz.ca
Auxílio   solicitado      ( ) Alimentação                                                     I ( )
para  renovação:          ( ) Moradia                                     (  ) transporte     II ( )
( ) Material Didático                                               III ( )
( ) Creche
2     Comprovante   de renda atualizado DO ESTUDANTE      E DOS   FAMILIARES
3     Declaração de situação socioeconômica
4     Original do histórico escolar atualizado
5     Comprovante   de residência atualizado
2018                          California                       e-fle             Signature                        Authorization                                 for       Individuals                                               8879
Your   name                                                                                                                                                                                          Your   SSN     or  ITIN
1     California      Adjusted      Gross      Income.      See    instructions        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
2     Amount       You    Owe.     See    instructions         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
3     Refund      or  No    Amount       Due.    See    instructions         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Part       II     Taxpayer       Declaration         and    Signature        Authorization         (Be    sure    you   obtain     and    keep    a  copy     of  your    return.)
Applicant      Alan                                        Locke
First                MI             Last
Date of birth     03  /  04      / 1991
Current address
551  LIBERTY     DR
Date of birth      03 /  02      / 1992
mo        day        year
8450  LA PALMA    AVE
BUENA    PARK                            CA        90620
How   long? 4 year
Andrew  Zolli                                          03-05-2019
Co-applicant                                             Date
Titular: Andre    Jakurski
Lotação:  Angra     dos    Reis                                 Matrícula: 493728561                                       Data:   05  / 03    /
Plano:     PMO-E   - Plano  Médico  Odontológico   Estendido
Usuário:  Ana    Cristina     Reif    de   Paula
Total de  Recibos  Apresentados   R$:  2000                     Banco:   Citibank Brasil.  Ag: M&C Saatchi F & QLocated - Conta no Brasil Corrente: 22109-0 -
Reservado   ao Faturamento
Data Utilização   Valor Apresentado     Código AMB/CIEFAS       Valor Tabela                 Serviço              Nº Dias
05/03/2011
05/03/2011 / /   Rs  2000             725                    40                  Implantologia                   1
/    /
/    /
/    /
/    /
/    /
Total                 -                     -                                              -                    -
3X4
CPF:  0  2   9  0  9   4  2   6  4  -   0  8     28     04     1988
Naturalidade: -                                    Nacionalidade:   BRASILEIRO
Endereço:    A v .  L u i s  V i a n a  -   4 º  A n d a r
Nº       6  0 0                 Bairro:       I  m  b  u  i
Cidade: S a  l  v a  d o  r                                        CEP:  4  1  7 2  0  - 2  0  0
Escolaridade: Fundamental  ( ) Médio ( ) Superior ( ) E-mail: debars@hotmail.com
Aceita receber informações da EMVL  pelo e-mail informado no campo  acima?  Sim ( ) Não ( )
Telefone:  9  8  - 9  9  1  9  7  7  4  3  7  Celular:          -
NOME   DO ALUNO:
A n  d  r  e     D  e b  a  r  s
3X4
TURNO      IDADE    SEXO        INSTRUMENTO              PROFISSÃO
M   T   N  69        M   F  -                        Engenheira
RG:    2  7  4   0  0  1   2  2  -  6               Data de Nascimento:
CPF:  0  2   9  0  9   4  2   6  4  -   0  8     28     04     1988
Endereço:    A v .  L u i s  V i a n a  -   4 º  A n d a r
Cidade: S a  l  v a  d o  r                                        CEP:  4  1  7 2  0  - 2  0  0
Escolaridade: Fundamental  ( ) Médio ( ) Superior ( ) E-mail: debars@hotmail.com
Telefone:  9  8  - 9  9  1  9  7  7  4  3  7  Celular:          -
Nome  da mãe:   M  o n  i  c a     H e  r  z                Profissão: Médica
COMPROVANTE       DE   INSCRIÇÃO
2    0     1    6    1    1     0
Nome   do Aluno:             Turno: (M) (T) (N) Idade: 69                                    3x4
Name  of Student                                          Date of Birth
Home  Address                                             Telephone Number
School Attending                                          Election Date
Course: DLD                                    Course Reference Number: 316
To date, student has an average grade  of 3         for the portion of work completed.
will be entered on the student record :
Instructor’s Signature:                                                 Date:
I, Marty Reich                    (name), understand  that if I do not meet the above requirements by
(date), then the above course grade of     (grade) will be recorded on my official transcript.
Student’s Signature:                                               Date:
Department  Chair Signature:                                       Date:
Morgan    Larkin                                            Blue  group
Participant Name (printed)                                    Group Name   & Session Dates
Candelaria    Larkin                                         $5000
Name   on Credit Card                                         Amount  to be Paid in US Dollars ($0.00 format)
4024007139130370                                              candelaria.larkin@gmail.com
Card Number                                                   Email Address
04/23                                                        1-513-865-5297      x282
Expiration Date (MM/YY)                                      Phone  Number
different        $25,000
$15,000
t
e r $10,000
P
e r $9,000
b
e
M  $7,000
e
P  $6,000
n g                                           Allowed Per
i  $5,000
d                                             PatientPer
p                                                     in
S  $3,000                                     Diabetics
a
$0
-11    -9    -7     -5    -3    -1     1     3      5     7     9     11    13     15    17    19    21     23    25    27     29    31    33     35
Lung     Colorectal    Breast
I.     INTRODUCTION                                                                   1
III.   OVERVIEW     OF  FDA  RISK  ASSESSMENT—PRE-        AND  POSTMARKET             3
APPROPRIATE     FOR   DISTRIBUTION     TO  HEALTH    CARE   PROFESSIONALS
Nome    Completo:
Endereço:    Av.  Gov.   Roberto    Silveira,   1900   - Prado,    Nova    Friburgo,    RJ,  28635-000,      Brazil
Email:  barbastefano@gmail.com
(  ) Docente    da  UNIR     (  ) Técnico   Administrativo     da  UNIR      (  ) Acadêmico     da  UNIR
(  ) Surdo    (  ) Família   de Surdo   (  ) Professores    da Educação     Básica   (  ) Acadêmico
NOME  COMPLETO   *
CPF e RG*
063464204-96
R. do Areal, 522 - Parque  Pereque, Angra  dos Reis  - RJ, 23953-030, Brazil
ENTIDADE/ÓRGÃO/ASSOCIAÇÃO/UNIVERSIDADE
University of São Paulo
(98) 98402-1128
MANIFESTAÇÕES:
Código    do  Curso*:                        DS-101
Nome    do  Curso**:                         Estruturas     de  dados
Pós  Graduação:                              ( ) Strictu  Sensu  - Mestrado
( ) Strictu  Sensu  - Doutorado
CPF:                                         02909426408
Integralidade***:                            Em    processo
Turno:                                       Manhã
Ingressante     Cotista?                     ( ) Sim
( ) Não
Possui   deficiência?                        ( ) Sim
Data   de  Nascimento:                       28/04/1988
NOME   COMPLETO       Wagner        Gentil
8  3  7  7  7  3  7  4  6
E-MAIL     wagner.gentil@cemat.com.br                                 NÚMERO    DE  IDENTIFICAÇÃO     FISCAL  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 4
2.1. NOME  COMPLETO            Wagner  Gentil
2.2. NA QUALIDADE   DE:  CÔNJUGE                  FILHO  MENOR
3.3. DOENÇA DOS FILHOS MENORES DO BENEFICIÁRIO                3.4. MATERNIDADE DA PRÓPRIA BENEFICIÁRIA
3.5. MATERNIDADE DO CÔNJUGE DO BENEFICIÁRIO
IDENTIFICAÇÃO    BANCÁRIA
SWIFT  BIC: |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
Name:   Marcos Jacobs                NSU  ID/SSN: 212-35-3331
Term :   NA                          Telephone Number: 916 445 5637
Visa (cid:133)            MasterCard   (cid:133)           American  Express (cid:133)
Cardholder’s Name:  Tyron Jacobs
Signature:
Billing Address: 1189 NW  End Ave  D3, Fayetteville, AR, 72703, USA
Print to complete  and send  to the NSU  Office of the University Bursar:
Student Accounts
P.O. Box 290060
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33329-0060
By fax to:                       (954) 262-2473
Figure    12. Treatment       Patterns    (%)  for  Nonseminomatous            Testicular    Germ     Cell Tumors     by   Stage,   2009-2013
50                                                                                                                            Surgery + chemo
45
35                                                                                                         Surgery + chemo + RPLND
30
Chemo and/or RT
20                                                                                          18                                No surgery, RT, or chemo
11
10                                 9                                  6                             8
TELEFONE                          E-MAIL
+5598988578047                    barbastefano@gmail.com
Pós-Graduação                                              Nova  Friburgo
Note: Funds can be deposited into one account or split between accounts as a set percent or dollar amount.
Account  number
ABA  Routing Number
Deposit Amount                        %  OR  $                (Flat Amount)  OR      Remaining
Account  type                Checking     Savings                 State Acct Opened
Deposit Amount                        %  OR  $                (Flat Amount)  OR      Remaining
Account  type                Checking     Savings                 State Acct Opened
Account  number
ABA  Routing Number
Deposit Amount                        %  OR  $                (Flat Amount)  OR      Remaining
First Name                                 Middle Name                               Last Name
Address                                    City                                      State                 Zip
-      -
Profissional Solicitante                                           Registro no Conselho
IDENTIFICAÇÃO       DO  USUÁRIO
Nº do Cartão Nacional de Saúde (se possuir)                                  Data de Nascimento*
700  0092  5970  6801                                                             03-03-1994
Nome  da Mãe*
Maria  Ana
Nome do Pai*
Raça                              Sexo*                   UF de Nascimento*                 Naturalidade*
Preto                                      MASCULINO                  RJ                                   brasileiaro
522                        Parque   Pereque                                                               23953-030
U F*                                                Cidade*                                              Telefone
RJ                        Angra   dos Reis                                                                (98)  98402-1128
03-03-2020                      8HR                             887777                           99874
patterns = List of patterns for Semantic Network relationships
for  each s  in synonyms  {
}
return patternMatches
Figure 3: Relation Matcher algorithm
Winnacunnet    High School
4.    The  social media tool I intend to use: (check all that apply)
SEAS  Major    Electronics                                      2nd Maj / Minor                Networking
Internship  Information
Company   Name       Cresent       Corp.
Company   Division or Finance
Required    Signature
For Advising Office Use Only                                                                                                           Submit  forms  to:
Approved   by  Faculty  Advisor:  Signature                                                                                      seasadvising@gwu.edu
Martin Leiser
Manager
TITLE
ORGANIZATION
ADDRESS
mleiser@largo.com
Full Conference                           $195                    $235      $ 195
Thursday  Only                            $135                    $155      $
Friday Only                                $110                   $135      $
Less SWANA-MA     Special ($45 Deduction  per SWANA    Member)              $
Address  of Cardholder   (only if different from above):
Same    as  above
ADDRESS
-                                                    -                    -
CITY                                                STATE                 ZIP
Figure     7.  Rectal    Cancer      Treatment         Patterns      (%)   by   Stage,     2013
destruction
80                                                                                                                                                Local tumor excision/
destruction + chemo and/or RT
67
40
29                28                                                                                      31
No surgery, chemo, or RT
20                                                                 14          13                                                14
Individual Contributions  (Cont.)                                                    Individual Contributions  (Cont.)
Near  term                      Midpoint                    Contribution             Near  term                      Midpoint                    Contribution
Strike      Option  Type        Price         Delta-K        by Strike               Strike      Option  Type        Price         Delta-K        by Strike
1620            Put            0.625            5         0.0000011908               1720            Put            1.800            5         0.0000030423
1625            Put            0.675            5         0.0000012781               1725            Put            1.850            5         0.0000031087
1630            Put            0.675            5         0.0000012703               1730            Put            1.925            5         0.0000032160
1635            Put            0.725            5         0.0000013561               1735            Put            2.000            5         0.0000033221
1640            Put            0.725            5         0.0000013478               1740            Put            2.100            5         0.0000034682
1645            Put            0.775            5         0.0000014320               1745            Put            2.175            5         0.0000035715
1650            Put            0.675            5         0.0000012397               1750            Put            2.275            5         0.0000037144
1655            Put            0.825            5         0.0000015060               1755            Put            2.375            5         0.0000038556
1660            Put            0.825            5         0.0000014970               1760            Put            2.475            5         0.0000039951
1665            Put            0.875            5         0.0000015782               1765            Put            2.575            5         0.0000041330
1670            Put            0.875            5         0.0000015688               1770            Put            2.725            5         0.0000043491
1675            Put            0.925            5         0.0000016485               1775            Put            2.825            5         0.0000044834
1680            Put            0.975            5         0.0000017273               1780            Put            3.000            5         0.0000047344
1685            Put            1.025            5         0.0000018051               1785            Put            3.100            5         0.0000048648
1690            Put            1.025            5         0.0000017944               1790            Put            3.250            5         0.0000050718
1695            Put            1.075            5         0.0000018709               1795            Put            3.450            5         0.0000053539
1700            Put            1.125            5         0.0000019464               1800            Put            3.600            5         0.0000055557
1705            Put            1.125            5         0.0000019350               1805            Put            3.800            5         0.0000058319
1710            Put            1.175            5         0.0000020092               1810            Put            3.950            5         0.0000060287
1715            Put            1.225            5         0.0000020825               1815            Put            4.200            5         0.0000063750
1720            Put            1.275            5         0.0000021549               1820            Put            4.400            5         0.0000066419
1725            Put            1.325            5         0.0000022265               1825            Put            4.650            5         0.0000069808
1730            Put            1.375            5         0.0000022972               1830            Put            4.900            5         0.0000073160
1735            Put            1.425            5         0.0000023670               1835            Put            5.150            5         0.0000076474
1740            Put            1.475            5         0.0000024360               1840            Put            5.450            5         0.0000080490
1745            Put            1.550            5         0.0000025452               1845            Put            5.750            5         0.0000084461
1750            Put            1.600            5         0.0000026123               1850            Put            6.050            5         0.0000088388
1755            Put            1.675            5         0.0000027192               1855            Put            6.450            5         0.0000093724
1760            Put            1.750            5         0.0000028248               1860            Put            6.750            5         0.0000097557
1765            Put            1.825            5         0.0000029292               1865            Put            7.150            5         0.0000102785
1770            Put            1.900            5         0.0000030324               1870            Put            7.650            5         0.0000109385
1775            Put            2.000            5         0.0000031740               1875            Put            8.150            5         0.0000115914
1780            Put            2.075            5         0.0000032746               1880            Put            8.600            5         0.0000121664
1785            Put            2.175            5         0.0000034132               1885            Put            9.200            5         0.0000129463
1790            Put            2.250            5         0.0000035112               1890            Put            9.750            5         0.0000136478
1795            Put            2.375            5         0.0000036856               1895            Put            10.400           5         0.0000144809
1800            Put            2.525            5         0.0000038967               1900            Put            11.100           5         0.0000153743
1805            Put            2.625            5         0.0000040286               1905            Put            11.800           5         0.0000162582
1810            Put            2.775            5         0.0000042353               1910            Put            12.600           5         0.0000172697
1815            Put            2.950            5         0.0000044776               1915            Put            13.450           5         0.0000183386
1820            Put            3.075            5         0.0000046417               1920            Put            14.400           5         0.0000195317
1825            Put            3.300            5         0.0000049541               1925            Put            15.400           5         0.0000207797
1830            Put            3.450            5         0.0000051511               1930            Put            16.400           5         0.0000220146
1835            Put            3.650            5         0.0000054200               1935            Put            17.600           5         0.0000235035
1840            Put            3.900            5         0.0000057598               1940            Put            18.800           5         0.0000249767
1845            Put            4.100            5         0.0000060224               1945            Put            20.200           5         0.0000266989
1850            Put            4.350            5         0.0000063551               1950            Put            21.600           5         0.0000284031
1855            Put            4.650            5         0.0000067568               1955            Put            23.200           5         0.0000303512
1860            Put            4.950            5         0.0000071542               1960      Put/Call Average     26.100           5         0.0000339711
4TABLE Method              Sensitivity/specificity   Advantages                                      Disadvantages                                   Cost*         References
Rapid  diagnostic test     sens:                     •  Differentiates P. falciparum from non-       • Cannot   differentiate between  non-          1.00
based  on pLDH:            spec:                       falciparum  infections.                         falciparum  species.
(OptiMal  - Flow Inc)                                • Speed   and ease of use; minimal  training    • Will not quantify  parsitaemia
requirements   to achieve  reliable result.     (+/- only).
• Reportedly   does not remain  positive
after clearance  of parasites.
• No  electricity, no special equipment
needed;  could  be used  in community
outreach  programmes.
Rapid  diagnostic stick    sens: 84%  –97%           • Speed   and ease of use; minimal  training    • Will not diagnose  non-falciparum             0.80 to       (23)
test based on  PfHRP-II:   spec: 81%–100%              requirements   to achieve  reliable results.    malaria  although  subsequent                 1.00
(ParaSight-F –                                       • No  electricity, no special equipment           generation   tests will be able to do this.
Becton  – Dickinson;       lower values probably       needed;  could  be used  at health post/      • Will not quantify  parasitaemia                             (22)
Malaria PfTest –           due to low parasite         community    outreach.                          (+/- only).
ICT Diagnostics)           densities                 • Card  format easier to use for individual     • Can  remain  positive after clearance of
tests; dipstick test easier to use for          parasites.
batched   testing.
Light microscopy           Optimal  conditions:      • Species-specific  diagnosis.                  • Requires  relatively high degree  of          0.03 to       (22)
sens: >90%                • Quantification  of parasitaemia  aids           training and  supervision  for reliable       0.08**        (11)
spec: 100%                  treatment   follow-up.                          results.
• Sensitivity and  specificity dependent
Typical field conditions:                                                   on  training and supervision.
sens: 25%–100%                                                            • Special  equipment   and supplies  needed.
spec: 56%–100%                                                            • Electricity desirable.
• Time-consuming.
Fluorescent  microscopy:   AO: 42%–93%    sens/      • Results  attainable more  quickly than        • Special equipment    and supplies  needed.    0.03 (AO)     (24)
• Acridine orange  [AO]    52–93%   spec               normal   microscopy.                          • Sensitivity of AO poor  with low  parasite    to 1.70       (22)
stained  thick blood                                                                                 densities.                                    (QBC)
smears);                                                                                           • Electricity required.
• Quantitative  Buffy      QBC: 89%  sens/  >95%                                                     • Unreliable  species diagnosis; non-specific
Coat (QBCTM)  –          spec                                                                        staining  of debris and non-parasitic cells.
(Becton-Dickinson)                                                                                 • QBC  will not quantify parasitaemia.
• Acridine  orange  is a hazardous material.
Clinical, especially       Variable depending   on   • Speed   and ease  of use.                     • Can  result in high degree of misdiagnosis    Variable      (111)
based  on formal           level of clinical         • No  electricity, no special equipment           and  over-treatment   for malaria.            depending
algorithm  such as         competency,  training,      needed   beyond  normal   clinical            • Requires  close supervision  and              on            (112)
Integrated  Manage-        and malaria  risk           equipment    (thermometer,  stethoscope,        retraining to maximize   reliability.         situation.
ment  of Childhood         (endemicity):               otoscope,  timer).
Illnesses (IMCI) or        with IMCI:
similar algorithm          low risk: sens: 87%
spec: 8%
high risk: sens: 100%
spec: 0%
Table   2   Seasonal    risk of concussion    in sports
Concussed   per
Author                     Type  of athletes                                    years  of study      seasons  (n)     Athletes  (n)     Concussed          player/season   (%)
Football
Barr and McCrea15       High school and college football                     1997–1999            2                   1313             50                1.9
McCrea18                High school and college football                     1998–1999            2                   1325             63                2.4
McCrea  et al17         High school and college football                     1999–2001            3                   2385             91                3.8
McCrea  et al19         College football                                     1999–2001            2                                    94                3.9
Barr et al16            High school and college football                     2008–2009            2                     823            59                7.2
Seidman  et al24        High school football                                 2013                 1                     343              9               2.6
Dompier  et al25        Football                                             2012–2013            2                  20 479          1178                5.8
Youth football                                       2012–2013            2                   4092            136                3.3
High school football                                 2012–2013            2                  11 957           767                6.4
College football                                     2012–2013            2                   4430            275                6.7
College football                                     2011–2014            4                   9718            518                5.3
Houck et al26           College football                                     2006–2015            9                   945*            118               12.5
Bretzin et al14         High school football                                 2015–2016            1                  39 520          1530                3.9
Total football                                                                                                        67 133          3192                4.8
All sports
Galetta et al27         Football, sprint football, men’s and women’s soccer  2010–2011            1                     219            10                4.6
and basketball
Marinides et al20       College athletes                                     2011–2012            1                     217            30               13.8
Galetta et al21         Ice hockey/lacrosse youth and college                                     1                     332            12                3.6
Leong et al28           Football, men’s and women’s  basketball              2012–2013            1                     127            11                8.7
Putukian et al22        College athletes                                     2011–2012            1                     263            32               12.2
Chin et al23            High school and college athletes                     2012–2014            3                   2018            166                2.7
Kerr et al12            NCAA  athletes                                       2011–2014            4                  32 156          1410                4.4
Men’s baseball                                       2011–2014            4                   1757             13                0.7
Men’s basketball                                     2011–2014            4                   1889             74                3.9
College football                                     2011–2014            4                   9718            518                5.3
Men’s ice hockey                                     2011–2014            4                   3689            253                6.9
Men’s lacrosse                                       2011–2014            4                   1768             44                2.5
Men’s soccer                                         2011–2014            4                   1810             29                1.6
Men’s wrestling                                      2011–2014            4                     821            65                7.9
Women’s   basketball                                 2011–2014            4                   1690             90                5.3
Women’s   ice hockey                                 2011–2014            4                   1301             94                7.2
Women’s   lacrosse                                   2011–2014            4                   1522             49                3.2
Women’s   softball                                   2011–2014            4                   1569             38                2.4
Women’s   soccer                                     2011–2014            4                   2831             93                3.3
Women’s   volleyball                                 2011–2014            4                   1791             50                2.8
Dhawan  et al29         Youth hockey                                                              1                     141            20               14.2
Tsushima  et al13        Athletes grades 8–12                                 2013–2014            1                  10 334          1250               12.1
Bretzin et al14         High school athletes in 15 sports                    2015–2016            1                193 757           3352                1.7
Total                                                                                                                 239  564          6293                2.6
Calls                             Puts
Strike
Bid              Ask              Bid             Ask
1670            291.90           295.70            0.60            1.15
1675            287.00           290.70            0.65            1.20
1680            282.00           285.70            0.70            1.25
1685            277.00           280.80            0.75            1.30
1690            272.10           275.80            0.75            1.30
1695            267.10           270.90            0.80            1.35
1700            262.10           265.90            0.85            1.40
1705            257.20           261.00            0.85            1.40
1710            252.20           256.00            0.90            1.45
1715            247.30           251.10            0.95            1.50
1720            242.30           246.10            1.00            1.55
1725            237.40           241.20            1.05            1.60
1730            232.40           236.30            1.10            1.65
1735            227.50           231.30            1.15            1.70
1740            222.50           226.40            1.20            1.75
1745            217.60           221.50            1.25            1.85
1750            212.60           216.60            1.30            1.90
1755            207.70           211.60            1.40            1.95
1760            202.80           206.70            1.45            2.05
1765            197.80           201.80            1.50            2.15
1770            192.90           196.90            1.60            2.20
1775            188.00           192.00            1.65            2.35
1780            183.10           187.10            1.75            2.40
1785            178.20           182.20            1.85            2.50
1790            173.30           177.30            1.90            2.60
1795            168.40           172.40            2.00            2.75
1800            163.50           167.50            2.15            2.90
1805            158.60           162.60            2.25            3.00
1810            153.80           157.80            2.35            3.20
1815            148.90           152.90            2.50            3.40
1820            144.10           148.10            2.65            3.50
1825            139.20           143.30            3.00            3.60
1830            134.40           138.40            3.00            3.90
1835            129.60           133.60            3.20            4.10
1840            124.80           128.80            3.40            4.40
1845            120.10           124.10            3.60            4.60
1850            115.40           119.30            3.80            4.90
1855            110.60           114.60            4.10            5.20
1860            105.90           109.90            4.40            5.50
1865            101.30           105.20            4.70            5.80
1870            96.60            100.50            5.00            6.20
1875            92.00            95.90             5.40            6.60
1880            87.40            91.30             5.80            7.00
1885            82.90            86.70             6.20            7.50
1890            78.40            82.20             6.70            8.00
1895            74.00            77.70             7.20            8.60
1900            69.60            73.20             7.80            8.80
Next-Term   Options   (cont.)
Calls                             Puts
Strike
Bid              Ask              Bid             Ask
1875            94.50            95.90             8.00            8.30
1880            90.00            91.40             8.40            8.80
1885            85.50            86.90             9.00            9.40
1890            81.10            82.50             9.50            10.00
1895            76.80            78.10            10.20            10.60
1900            72.40            73.70            10.90            11.30
1905            68.20            69.40            11.60            12.00
1910            64.00            65.20            12.40            12.80
1915            59.80            61.10            13.20            13.70
1920            55.70            57.00            14.20            14.60
1925            51.70            53.00            15.20            15.60
1930            47.80            49.10            16.20            16.60
1935            44.60            45.10            17.40            17.80
1940            40.80            41.30            18.60            19.00
1945            37.20            37.70            20.00            20.40
1950            33.70            34.40            21.40            21.80
1955            30.30            30.90            23.00            23.40
1960            27.00            27.60            24.70            25.10
1965            23.80            24.50            26.50            27.30
1970            20.80            21.40            28.50            29.40
1975            18.00            18.60            30.50            31.60
1980            15.50            15.90            33.00            34.00
1985            13.10            13.50            35.50            36.60
1990            10.90            11.30            38.40            39.50
1995             9.00             9.30            41.30            42.50
2000             7.20             7.60            44.50            45.80
2005             5.70             6.00            48.10            49.30
2010             4.50             4.80            51.70            53.00
2015             3.40             3.70            55.80            57.00
2020             2.60             2.80            59.90            61.70
2025             1.95             2.15            64.10            66.10
2030             1.45             1.65            68.60            70.60
2035             1.05             1.25            73.30            75.20
2040             0.80             0.95            78.00            80.00
2045             0.60             0.75            82.00            84.80
2050             0.50             0.65            86.90            89.60
2060             0.30             0.40            96.60            99.40
2070             0.20             0.30           106.70           109.50
2075             0.15             0.25           111.70           114.50
2100             0.10             0.20           136.30           139.10
2125             0.05             0.15           161.50           164.30
2150             0.05             0.15           186.30           189.00
2175             0.00             0.10           211.30           214.00
2200             0.05             0.10           236.30           239.00
2225             0.00             0.10           261.30           264.00
2250             0.00             0.10           286.30           289.00
Year(s) for which
Reference                               Region                       costs are reported              Reported  cost
Annual   costs *
Chamberlain   et al . [ 9 ]             England/Wales                1997                            Total costs for prostate cancer  £ 55 000 000
Direct costs for prostate cancer  £ 45 000 000
Marks  et al . [ 10 ]                   Australia                    1993 – 1994                     Total costs for prostate cancer  AU$101  100 000
Koopsmanschap    et al . [ 11 ]         Netherlands                  1988                            Total costs for prostate cancer  Dutch guilders 110 000 000
National  Cancer Institute              USA                          2006  (projected)               Estimated  annual  costs for prostate cancer  $9 862 000 000
[ 12 ]
First-year  costs after diagnosis
Lazzaro et al . [ 13 ]                  Italy                        2000                            Cost  per patient € 6 600
Fourcade  et al . [ 14 ]                Europe                       2006                            Total cost                                   Per patient cost
UK                                                           € 116 700 000                                € 3 171
Germany                                                      € 179 000 000                                € 4 057
France                                                       € 167 500 000                                € 5 851
Italy                                                        € 106 700 000                                € 5 226
Spain                                                        € 114 600 000                                € 3 256
Roehrborn   et al . [ 15 ]              USA                          2004                            Cost  per patient $13 901  (average across cancer  stages) a
Diagnosis  and  treatment   costs over  4 – 5 years
Sangar  et al . [ 16 ]                  UK                           2001 – 2002                     Total cost for PCa £ 92 740 000
Average  cost per pt £ 7 294.20
Treatment  costs;
Watchful  waiting  £ 1 800 000
Treatment  £ 89 920 000
Benedict  et al . †                     Europe                       2006                            Total costs                                  Per patient cost
UK                                                           € 269 000 000                                £ 5 984
Germany                                                      € 486 000 000                                € 10 949
France                                                       € 618 000 000                                € 9 725
Italy                                                        € 364 000 000                                € 8 516
Spain                                                        € 198 000 000                                € 7 753
Stokes et al . [ 17 ]                   USA                          2004  (projected)               Initial treatment $13 901/patient  (average across cancer
stages) [ 15 ] a
4-year  follow-up  $18 168/patient  (average across cancer
stages) b
Combined   prostate  cancer costs of $18 168  for 81 659
patients over an average  follow-up  of 4 years produced
total prostate cancer-specifi c costs of $1 483 580 712.
A. Official reserve assets  (Note  1)                                                118,387
(1) Foreign currency  reserves  (in convertible foreign currencies)                  118,640
(a) Securities (Note  2)                                                             109,203
of which: issuer  headquartered   in Hong  Kong  but located abroad                         0
(b) total currency and deposits  with:                                                  9,437
(i) other national central banks, BIS and  IMF  (Note  3)                               2,434
(ii) banks headquartered   in Hong  Kong  (Note  4)                                     3,448
of which: located  abroad                                                                   0
(iii) banks headquartered  outside  Hong  Kong   (Note  4)                              3,555
of which: located  in Hong  Kong                                                        3,053
(2) IMF reserve  position                                                                   0
(3) SDRs
(4) gold (including gold deposits  and, if appropriate, gold swapped)                      28
—volume    in fine troy ounces  (66,916  ounces  at USD417.25)                              0
(5) other reserve assets  (specify)                                                      -281
—financial  derivatives  (Note 5)                                                        -442
—loans   to nonbank  nonresidents                                                           0
—other   (Note  6)                                                                        161
B. Other  foreign currency assets  (specify)   (Note 7)                                    31
—securities  not included  in official reserve assets
—deposits   not included  in official reserve assets                                       24
—loans   not included in official reserve assets
—financial  derivatives not included  in official reserve assets
—gold   not included in official reserve assets
—other                                                                                      7
Maturity  breakdown    (residual  maturity)
More  than  1  More  than  3
Up  to 1        and  up to 3   months   and
Total          month           months         up  to 1 year
1. Foreign currency  loans, securities, and deposits                                        0               0              0              0
—outflows   (-)                                                 Principal                   0               0              0              0
Interest                    0               0              0              0
—inflows  (+)                                                   Principal
Interest
2. Aggregate   short and long positions  in forwards and  futures in foreign
currencies  vis-à-vis the domestic  currency (including the forward  leg of            533             533               0              0
currency  swaps)
(a) Short positions ( - )                                                                 0               0              0              0
(b) Long  positions (+)                                                                533             533               0              0
3. Other  (specify)                                                                    -134           -134               0              0
—outflows   related to repos (-)                                                       -115           -115               0              0
—inflows   related to reverse repos  (+)
—trade   credit (-)
—trade   credit (+)
—other   accounts  payable  (-)                                                         -19            -19               0              0
—other   accounts  receivable  (+)
Expenditure
threshold      1%  total HE       2%  total HE        3%  total HE        4% total HE        5%  total HE
$ 800              $ 1 500            $ 2 300             $ 3 000             $ 3 800
Low  income        ($ 600; $ 1 000)  ($ 1 200; $ 2 000)  ($ 1 700; $ 3 000) ($ 2 300; $ 4 100)  ($ 2 900; $ 5 100)
Lower-middle           $ 1 600            $ 3 200            $ 4 800             $ 6 400             $ 8 000
income            ($ 1 100; $ 2 600) ($ 2 200; $ 5 200)  ($ 3 300; $ 7 700) ($ 4 300; $ 10 300) ($ 5 400; $ 12 900)
Upper-middle           $ 3 100            $ 6 200            $ 9 400             $ 12 500           $ 15 600
income            ($ 1 900; $ 4 500) ($ 3 800; $ 9 100) ($ 5 700; $ 13 600) ($ 7 500; $ 18 100) ($ 9 400; $ 22 600)
High income            $ 8 100            $ 16 300           $ 24 400           $ 32 500            $ 40 600
($ 4 700; $ 14 600) ($ 9 400; $ 29 200) ($ 14 100; $ 43 800) ($ 18 800; $ 58 500) ($ 23 500; $ 73 100)
Código                               Descrição do                           Dente/face/           Código
TuSS                               procedimento                               Região              TuSS
DIAGNÓSTICO
81000030         Consulta odontológica                                         ASAI               85200115
81000065         Consulta odontológica inicial                                 ASAI               85200123
81000073         Consulta odontológica para avaliação técnica de auditoria     ASAI               85200131
81000111         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  citologia               SEXTANTE              85200140
esfoliativa na região buco-maxilo-facial                                         85200158
81000138         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  material de             SEXTANTE              85200166
biópsia na região buco-maxilo-facial
81000154         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  peça cirúrgica          SEXTANTE              82000034
na região buco-maxilo-facial                                                     82000077
81000170         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  punção na               SEXTANTE              82000085
região buco-maxilo-facial                                                        82000158
84000244         Teste de fluxo salivar                                        ASAI               82000166
uRGêNCIA   E EMERGêNCIA                                              82000174
81000049         Consulta odontológica de Urgência                             ASAI               82000182
81000057         Consulta odontológica de Urgência 24 hs                       ASAI               82000239
82001022         Incisão e Drenagem  extra-oral de abscesso,               HEMI-ARCO              82000247
hematoma   e/ou flegmão da região buco-maxilo-facial                             82000255
82001030         Incisão e Drenagem  intra-oral de abscesso,                 GRUPO                82000263
hematoma   e/ou flegmão  da região buco-maxilo-facial                            82000271
82001197         Redução  simples de luxação de Articulação                    ASAI               82000280
Têmporo-mandibular   (ATM)                                                       82000298
82001251         Reimplante  dentário com contenção                           DENTE               82000301
82001499         Sutura de ferida em região buco-maxilo-facial               GRUPO                82000352
82001650         Tratamento  de alveolite                                     DENTE               82000360
85100048         Colagem  de fragmentos  dentários                            DENTE               82000387
85200034         Pulpectomia                                                  DENTE               82000395
85300063         Tratamento  de abscesso periodontal agudo                   GRUPO                82000786
85300071         Tratamento  de gengivite necrosante aguda - GNA             GRUPO                82000794
85300080         Tratamento  de pericoronarite                               GRUPO                82000808
85400041         Conserto em  prótese parcial removível                    HEMI-ARCO              82000816
(exclusivamente em  consultório)                                                 82000832
85400068         Conserto em  prótese total                                  ARCADA
(exclusivamente em  consultório)                                                 82000859
85400467         Recimentação  de trabalhos protéticos                        DENTE               82000875
RADIOLOGIA                                                     82000883
81000383         Radiografia oclusal                                           ASAI               82000891
81000278         Fotografia                                                HEMI-ARCO              82000905
81000294         Levantamento  Radiográfico (Exame  Radiodôntico)              ASAI               82000913
81000375         Radiografia interproximal - bite-wing                     HEMI-ARCO              82001073
81000405         Radiografia panorâmica de                                     ASAI               82001103
mandíbula/maxila  (ortopantomografia)                                            82001170
81000421         Radiografia periapical                                      GRUPO                82001189
Prevenção                                                    82001286
84000031         Aplicação de cariostático                                    DENTE               82001294
84000058         Aplicação de selante - técnica invasiva                      DENTE               82001510
84000074         Aplicação de selante de fóssulas e fissuras                  DENTE               82001529
84000090         Aplicação tópica de flúor                                     ASAI               82001545
84000139         Atividade educativa em saúde bucal                            ASAI
84000163         Controle de biofilme (placa bacteriana)                       ASAI               82001553
84000198         Profilaxia: polimento coronário                               ASAI
85300055         Remoção   dos fatores de retenção do                       SEXTANTE              82001588
Biofilme Dental (Placa Bacteriana)
87000016         Atividade educativa em odontologia para pais e/ou             ASAI               82001596
cuidadores de pacientes com necessidades especiais
87000024         Atividade educativa para pais e/ou cuidadores                 ASAI               82001618
DENTíSTICA
85100013         Capeamento   pulpar direto                                   DENTE               82001634
85100064         Faceta direta em resina fotopolimerizável                 DENTE/  FACE
85100099         Restauração de amálgama   - 1 face                        DENTE/  FACE           82001642
85100102         Restauração de amálgama   - 2 faces                       DENTE/  FACE
85100110         Restauração de amálgama   - 3 faces                       DENTE/  FACE           82001707
85100129         Restauração de amálgama   - 4 faces                       DENTE/  FACE           82001715
85100196         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 1 face           DENTE/  FACE
85100200         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 2 faces          DENTE/  FACE           81000014
85100218         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 3 faces          DENTE/  FACE           83000020
85100226         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 4 faces          DENTE/  FACE           83000046
ou mais faces                                                                    83000062
85400017         Ajuste Oclusal por acréscimo                                ARCADA               83000089
85400025         Ajuste Oclusal por desgaste seletivo                        ARCADA               83000127
85400211         Núcleo de preenchimento                                      DENTE               83000151
PERIODONTIA                                                 87000032
82000212         Aumento   de coroa clínica                                  GRUPO
82000336         Cirurgia odontológica a retalho                            SEXTANTE
82000417         Cirurgia periodontal a retalho                             SEXTANTE              85400076
82000557         Cunha  proximal                                             GRUPO                85400084
82000921         Gengivectomia                                              SEXTANTE              85400114
82000948         Gengivoplastia                                             SEXTANTE              85400149
82001464         Sepultamento  radicular                                      DENTE               85400220
85300020         Imobilização dentária em dentes permanentes                 GRUPO                85400262
85300039         Raspagem   sub-gengival/alisamento radicular               SEXTANTE              85400432
85300047         Raspagem   supra-gengival                                    AS; AI              85400440
ENDODONTIA                                                  85400459
85200042         Pulpotomia                                                   DENTE               85400556
85200077         Remoção   de núcleo intrarradicular                          DENTE               87000040
85200093         Retratamento  endodôntico  birradicular                      DENTE               87000059
85200107         Retratamento  endodôntico  multirradicular                   DENTE               87000067
Principal Efflorescing   Salt           Most  Probable   Source
Calcium sulfate            CaSO  4●2H 2O       Brick
Sodium  sulfate            Na 2SO 4●10H 2O     Cement-brick  reactions
Potassium  sulfate         K 2SO 4             Cement-brick  reactions
Calcium carbonate          CaCO                Mortar    concrete
3                    or
backing
Sodium  carbonate          Na 2CO              Mortar
3
Potassium  carbonate       K 2CO 3             Mortar
Potassium  chloride        KCl                 Acid Cleaning
Sodium  chloride           NaCl                Sea Water
Vanadyl  sulfate           VOSO                Brick
4
Vanadyl  chloride          VOCl                Acid
2                   Cleaning
Manganese   oxide          Mn 3O               Brick
4
Iron oxide                 Fe 2O 3 or          Iron in contact or brick
Fe(OH) 3            with "black core" or
"black heart"
Calcium hydroxide          Ca(OH) 2            Cement
Relative
Variable                     Comparison                 weight†
Swollen  MCP   joint      Present  vs. absent                     1.5
Swollen  PIP joint        Present  vs. absent                     1.5
Swollen  wrist            Present  vs. absent                     1.6
Hand   tenderness         Present  vs. absent                     1.8
Acute-phase   response    Low-level  abnormal   vs. normal        1.2
Highly  abnormal   vs. normal           1.7
Serology                  Low-positive  vs. negative              2.2
(RF  or ACPA)           High-positive  vs. negative             3.9
Maturity  breakdown     (residual maturity)
More   than 1   More  than  3
Up  to 1       and  up  to 3   months   and
Total          month          months          up to 1 year
1. Foreign currency  loans, securities, and deposits                                        0              0              0              0
—outflows   (-)                                                 Principal                   0              0              0              0
Interest                    0              0              0              0
—inflows  (+)                                                   Principal
Interest
2. Aggregate   short and long positions in forwards  and futures in foreign
currencies  vis-à-vis the domestic  currency (including the forward  leg of            300            300               0              0
currency  swaps)
(a) Short positions ( - )                                                                 0              0              0              0
(b) Long  positions (+)                                                                300            300               0              0
3. Other  (specify)                                                                      -6             -6              0              0
—outflows   related to repos (-)                                                          0              0              0              0
—inflows   related to reverse repos (+)
—trade   credit (-)
—trade   credit (+)
—other   accounts  payable  (-)                                                          -6             -6              0              0
—other   accounts  receivable (+)
Název    organizace:                                                                                      Kurz  EUR/CZK      (záloha):
Číslo   projektu:                                                                        Kurz  EUR/CZK      (průběžná    platba):
Počet       Sazba  za       Rozpočet  dle    Vyčerpáno  celkem     Odchylka       Odchylka
Náklady                                              Jednotka    jednotek    jednotku (v €)       smlouvy               v €             (v €)           (v %)               Vysvětlete odchylky od schváleného   rozpočtu:
1. Lidské    zdroje
1.1 Platy (celkový  plat včetně  odvodů,   místní zaměstnanci)
1.1.1 Realizátoři, koordinátoři, vedoucí projektu, atd.                                      měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.1.1.1. Koordinátor projektu                                                                měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.1.2 Administrativní/podpůrní zaměstnanci                                                   měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.2 Platy (celkový  plat, zahraniční  pracovníci)
1.2.1 (…)                                                                                    měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.2.2 (…)                                                                                    měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.2.2 (…)                                                                                    měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.3 Diety
1.3.1 Do zahraničí (pro zaměstnance pracující na projektu)                                    den               0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.3.2 Místní (pro zaměstnance pracující na projektu)                                          den               0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.3.3 Seminář/účastníci konference                                                            den                                                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet     lidských   zdrojů                                                                                                                     0           0.00   €         0.00  €    #DIV/0!
2. Cestovné
2.1 Mezinárodní cesty                                                                            let              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
2.2 Místní přeprava (nad 200 km)                                                               měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet     cestovného                                                                                                                            0           0.00   €         0.00  €    #DIV/0!
3. Technika      a zboží***
3.1 Nákup nebo pronájem vozidla                                                                vozidlo            0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
3.2 Nábytek, počítačové vybavení                                                                 ks               0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
3.3 Náhradní díly/zařízení pro stroje, nářadí                                                                                                         0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
3.4 Jiné                                                                                                                                              0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet     techniky   a zboží                                                                                                                    0           0.00   €         0.00  €    #DIV/0!
4.Místní    kancelář/náklady        projektu
4.1 Náklady vozidla                                                                            měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
4.2 Pronájem kanceláře                                                                         měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
4.3 Spotřební materiál - kancelářské zboží                                                     měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
4.4 Jiné služby (tel/fax, elektřina/topení, údržba)                                            měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet     místní
kancelář/náklady      projektu                                                                                                                       0           0.00   €         0.00  €    #DIV/0!
Drug  & Class                      1/2 Life        Next Day  Sleepiness [Clinical Trials]               Toxicity And/Or Significant Side Effects
Short acting gaba  agonist         1–2 HR.         Anecdotal  and per survey                            Antegrade  Amnesia,  Confusion  At Higher Dose
- triazolem                                        [placebo
Equivalent]
GABA  selective agents             1 HR.           [Placebo                                             No consistent reports
- zaleplon                                         Equivalent]                                          [not in widespread use]
Zolpidem                           1.5 HR.         Anecdotal  [placebo                                  Symptomatic
Equivalent]                                          Parasomnias,
Per survey when  dosed  outside                      Next night rebound  insomnia
pharmacodynamic    profile and in the elderly
Eszopiclone                        6 HR.           Anecdotal                                            Possible Parasomnia  Associations
[placebo                                             [Agent Not  In Widespread  Generic Use]
Equivalent]
Near-Term   Options   (cont.)
Calls                             Puts
Strike
Bid              Ask              Bid             Ask
1910            61.60            64.10             9.10            10.20
1915            57.40            59.80             9.90            11.30
1920            53.30            55.60            10.70            12.10
1925            49.10            51.20            11.60            12.60
1930            45.20            47.30            12.50            14.00
1935            41.20            43.40            13.60            14.70
1940            37.40            39.50            14.70            15.80
1945            33.70            35.70            15.90            17.20
1950            30.10            32.10            17.70            18.80
1955            26.70            28.50            19.00            20.50
1960            23.40            25.10            20.60            22.00
1965            20.30            21.80            22.30            24.00
1970            17.40            18.80            24.30            25.80
1975            14.60            15.90            26.50            28.10
1980            12.20            13.30            28.90            30.60
1985             9.90            11.00            31.40            33.20
1990             7.90             9.00            34.30            36.50
1995             6.20             7.10            37.40            39.70
2000             4.70             5.20            40.70            43.20
2005             3.40             4.20            44.00            47.70
2010             2.65             3.10            48.00            51.40
2015             1.75             2.30            52.20            56.00
2020             1.20             1.70            56.60            60.40
2025             1.00             1.25            61.20            65.00
2030             0.45             1.00            65.90            69.70
2035             0.25             0.80            70.70            74.40
2040             0.35             0.65            75.60            79.30
2045             0.20             0.60            80.50            84.10
2050             0.20             0.30            85.40            89.00
2055             0.15             0.50            90.40            94.00
2060             0.15             0.30            95.30            98.90
2065             0.15             0.20           100.30           103.90
2070             0.10             0.20           105.30           108.90
2075             0.10             0.20           110.30           113.80
2080             0.05             0.45           115.30           118.80
2085             0.05             0.40           120.30           123.80
2090             0.05             0.15           125.30           128.80
2095             0.05             0.35           130.30           133.80
2100             0.05             0.15           135.30           138.80
2120             0.00             0.15           155.30           158.80
2125             0.05             0.15           160.30           163.80
2150             0.00             0.10           185.20           188.80
2175             0.00             0.05           210.20           213.70
2200             0.00             0.05           235.20           238.70
2225             0.05             0.10           260.20           263.70
2250             0.00             0.05           285.20           288.70
Intervention      Indication         Comparator      Magnitude    of benefits          Adverse  events
Neratinib,        The extended       Placebo,        5-year invasive disease-free      Grade  3 diarrhoea
administered      adjuvant           administered    survival                          • 40%  vs 2%
Vomiting
after chemo-      treatment of       after chemo-    • 90.2%  vs 87.7%
therapy and       adult patients     therapy and     • HR=   0.73 (95% CI: 0.57–0.92)  • 3%  vs <1%
trastuzumab       with early stage   trastuzumab                                       Nausea
(77)              HER2-over-                                                           • 2%  vs <1%
expressed/
amplified breast
cancer
Jurisdiction     Tariffsa         Value-added                         Tariffsa       Value-added
tax              Jurisdiction                      tax
Australia        0%               0%              Mexico              1.84–10%       0%
Brazil           7.06–11.43%      17%             Nigeria             0%             5%
Canada           0%               0%              Norway              0%             25%
China            3.75–6%b         16%             South  Africa       0%             14%
Countries  in                     Variable (0–    Russian             0% (Insulin)
European         0%               15%  based on                                      10%
Union                             national laws)  Federation          –5%  (other)
India            10%              5%               Switzerland        0%             2.5%
Indonesia        0%  (Insulin) –  10%             Turkey              0%             8%
5%  (other)
Japan            0%               8%               USA                0%             Variable (0–7%)
Target  location   Pathway/mechanism             Target molecule                              Examples   of therapies                   References
Existing  therapies          New   compounds
Cytosol            Folate metabolism             Dihydrofolate reductase         Pyrimethamine,  proguanil    Chlorproguanil                  82,83
Dihydropteroate synthase        Sulphadoxine,  dapsone
Glycolysis                    Thymidylate synthase                                         5-fluoroorotate                     84
Lactate dehydrogenase                                        Gossypol  derivatives               85
Peptide deformylase                                          Actinonin                           86
Protein synthesis             Heat-shock  protein 90                                       Geldanamycin                        87
Glutathione metabolism        Glutathione reductase                                        Enzyme   inhibitors                 88
Signal transduction           Protein kinases                                              Oxindole  derivatives               89
Unknown                       Ca2+-ATPase                     Artemisinins                                                     90
Parasite           Phospholipid synthesis        Choline transporter                                          G25                                 71
membrane           Membrane   transport          Unique channels                 Quinolines                   Dinucleoside  dimers                91
Hexose  transporter                                          Hexose  derivatives                 92
Food  vacuole      Haem   polymerization         Haemozoin                       Chloroquine                  New  quinolines                 93,94
Haemoglobin   hydrolysis      Plasmepsins                                                  Protease  inhibitors            95,96
Falcipains                                                   Protease  inhibitors            97,98
Free-radical generation       Unknown                         Artemisinins                 New  peroxides                 99,100
Mitochondrion      Electron transport            Cytochrome  coxidoreductase     Atovaquone                                                     101
Apicoplast         Protein synthesis             Apicoplast ribosome             Tetracyclines, clindamycin                                     102
DNA  synthesis                DNA  gyrase                     Quinolones
Transcription                 RNA  polymerase                 Rifampin
Type II fatty acid bio-       FabH                                                         Thiolactomycin                      29
synthesis                     FabI/PfENR                                                   Triclosan                   32,33,103
Isoprenoid synthesis          DOXP  reductoisomerase                                       Fosmidomycin                        30
Protein farnesylation         Farnesyl transferase                                         Peptidomimetics                25,104
Extracellular      Erythrocyte invasion          Subtilisin serine proteases                                  Protease  inhibitors           97,105
First author  (year)    Pricing approaches    discussed               Country  or region  in scope
WHO   (2015)xxiv        • Mark-up  control                            Global
• Tax exemptions   and reductions
• Cost-plus pricing
• Internal and external reference pricing
• Health technology  assessments
OECD   (2008)xxv        • Mark-up  control                            OECD   countries
• Internal and external reference pricing
• Market-based   pricing
• Cost-plus pricing
• Procurement   and tendering
• Managed   entry agreements
Panteli et al.          • Free pricing                                15 European  countries
(2016)xxvi              • External reference pricing
• Internal reference pricing
• Value-based  pricing
• Negotiations  and tendering
• Managed   entry agreements
• Patient cost-sharing
Schneider  et al.       • External reference pricing                  European  countries, Brazil, Egypt,
(2017)xxvii                                                           Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,  Qatar,
Kavanos  et al.                                                       Saudi Arabia, South  Africa, Republic
(2017)xxviii                                                          of Korea and  the United Arab
Emirates
Towse  et al.           • Differential pricing                        European  Union
(2015)xxix                                                            Lower-income   European   countries
Kaló et al. (2013)xxx
Clark et al. (2012)     • Tendering  and  negotiations                Global, with a focus on low- and
middle-income   countries
Nutrient               Biologic       Val./reproduc     Coef      Details
tissue
Retinol                Plasma         Validity          0.17      Borderline Correlation between  pre-formed  vit A intake and plasma retinol.
However   plasma  retinol is a recognized marker of vit A nutritional status for
undernourished  populations
Beta-carotene                                           0.51      Correlation between  plasma  beta-carotene level (averaged from 2 samples
taken 1 week  apart) and a 7-day diet record estimate of beta-carotene in 98 non-
smoking  women   (Willett, p 194).
0.38      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of carotene and plasma
betacarotene in 902 adult females. In males (n=880): r=0.20 (Margetts, table
7.9a).
Plasma         Reproducibility   0.45      Correlation for carotene (80%  beta-carotene, 20% alpha-carotene) between  two
measurements   taken 6 years apart (Willett, p 194).
Beta-cryptoxanthin     Plasma         Validity          0.49      Correlation between  plasma  beta-carotene level (averaged from 2
Lutein+zeaxanthin      Plasma         Validity          0.31      samples  taken 1 week apart) and a 7-day diet record estimate of beta carotene
Lycopene               Plasma         Validity          0.50      in 98 non-smoking   women  (Willett, p 194)
Alpha-carotene         Plasma         Validity          0.58
Alpha-carotene         Plasma         Validity          0.43      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of carotene and plasma
alphacarotene  in 902 adult females. In males (n=880): r=0.41 (Margetts, table
7.9a).
Carotenoids            Plasma         Reproducibility   !080      Within-person  variability of plasma levels over 1 week (Willett, p 194).
Vitamin  E             Plasma         Validity          0.53      Lipid-adjusted alpha-tocopherol  measurements  and  estimated intake (incl.
supplements).  After excluding supplement  users: r=0.35 (Willett, p 196)
Plasma         Reproducibility   0.65      Unadjusted  repeated measures  over a 6-year period (p 188). Adjusting for
serum  cholesterol reduced correlation to r=0.46 (p 188). Also r=0.65 was found
over a 4-year period in 105 adults in Finland (Willett, p 196).
Plasma         Validity          0.20      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of vit E and plasma vit E in
880  adult males. In females (n=906): r=0.14 (Margetts, table 7.9a)
Intervention      Indication         Comparator       Magnitude   of benefits          Adverse   events
Cetuximab  with   First-line         FOLFIRI alone    Median  PFS                      Any  events
FOLFIRI           treatment in                        • 8.9 months vs 8.0 months       • 79%  vs 61%
(irinotecan, 5-   KRAS  mutation-                     • HR=  0.85 (P=0.048)              (P<0.001)
fluorouracil,     negative EGFR-                                                       Acne-like
Median  OS                                 rash
leucovorin) (72)  expressing metastatic               • 19.9 months vs 18.6 months     • 16.2%  vs 0%
(P<0.001)
colorectal                          • HR=  0.93 (P=0.31)             Infusion related
cancer                                                               • 2.5%  vs 0%
(P<0.001)
Bevacizumab       First-line         Paclitaxel and   Median  PFS                      Neutropenia
with paclitaxel   treatment of       carboplatin      • 6.2 months vs 4.5 months       • 25.5%  vs 16.8%
and carboplatin   locally advan-     alone            • HR=  0.66 (P<0.001)              (P=0.002)
(73)              ced, recurrent,                                                      Thrombocytopaenia
Median  OS
or non-squamous metastatic          • 12.3 months vs 10.3 months     • 1.6% vs 0.2%
(P=0.04)
non-small-cell                      • HR=  0.79 (P=0.003)            Bleeding events
lung cancer                                                          • 4.4%  vs 0.7%
(P<0.001)
Bevacizumab       Metastatic         Paclitaxel       Median  PFS                      Hypertension
with paclitaxel   breast cancer      alone            • 11.8 months vs 5.9 months      • 14.8%  vs 0.0%
(74)                                                  • HR=  0.60 (P<0.001)              (P<0.001)
Median  OS                       Proteinuria
• 26.7 months vs 25.2 months     • 3.6%  vs 0.0%
(P<0.001)
• HR=  0.88 (P=0.1)              Cerebrovascular
ischaemia
• 1.9% vs 0.0%
(P= 0.02)
Erlotinib with    First-line         Gemcitabine      Median  PFS                      Rash
gemcitabine       treatment of       alone            • 3.75 months vs 3.55 months     • 72%  vs 29%
(75)              patients with                       • HR=  0.77 (95% CI: 0.64–0.92)  Infection
locally                             Median  OS                       • 43%  vs 34%
advanced, unresectable or           • 6.24 months  vs 5.91 months    Interstitial lung
disease-like
metastatic                          • HR=  0.82 (95% CI: 0.69–
pancreatic                            0.99)                          syndrome
• 2.1% vs 0.4%
cancer
Ramucirumab       Metastatic or      Best             Median  PFS                      Hypertension
• 16%  vs 8%
(76)              unresectable,      supportive       • 2.1 months vs 1.3 months       Haemorrhage
locally recurrent  care             • HR=  0.48 (95% CI: 0.38–
gastric or                            0.62)                          • 13%  vs 11%
gastro-
Median  OS
oesophageal
junction adeno-                     • 5.2 months vs 3.8 months
Figure   1. Estimated     Numbers     of  US  Cancer    Survivors
As of January  1, 2016                                           As of January  1, 2026
Male                        Female                               Male                       Female
Prostate                     Breast                              Prostate                     Breast
3,306,760                   3,560,570                            4,521,910                   4,571,210
Colon & rectum                Uterine corpus                     Colon & rectum               Uterine corpus
724,690                      757,190                             910,190                     942,670
Melanoma                  Colon & rectum                         Melanoma                  Colon & rectum
614,460                     727,350                              848,020                     885,940
Urinary bladder                 Thyroid                          Urinary bladder                Thyroid
574,250                     630,660                              754,280                     885,590
Non-Hodgkin  lymphoma              Melanoma                      Non-Hodgkin  lymphoma              Melanoma
361,480                     612,790                              488,780                     811,490
Kidney & renal pelvis      Non-Hodgkin  lymphoma                        Kidney              Non-Hodgkin  lymphoma
305,340                     324,890                              429,010                     436,370
Testis                 Lung & bronchus                           Testis                 Lung & bronchus
266,550                     288,210                              335,790                     369,990
Lung & bronchus               Uterine cervix                        Leukemia                   Uterine cervix
238,300                     282,780                              318,430                     286,300
Leukemia                      Ovary                           Lung & bronchus           Kidney & renal pelvis
230,920                     235,200                              303,380                     284,380
Oral cavity & pharynx        Kidney & renal pelvis               Oral cavity & pharynx              Ovary
229,880                     204,040                              293,290                     280,940
Total survivors              Total survivors                     Total survivors             Total survivors
7,377,100                    8,156,120                           9,983,900                  10,305,870
Table   5: Analysis   of the responses    to the first open-ended    question
f %                                                  f
Category        Sub-category                             Experimental                                      Experimental
Mathematical                        Humanities     Mathematical                        Humanities
science                                           science
1)Quality    No response                    23               25/9             32/8             55               49               39
of           No Answer                      13               12/7             18/5             31               24               22
examples     Yes Answer                     64               61/4             48/7             153              116              58
Numbers
Permutation,                  23/4              23/8              26              56               45               31
Combination      and          4/2                3/7             1/7              10                7                2
Probability                   6/3                4/2             0/8              15                8                1
Trigonometry                  0/4                 0               0                1                0                0
2)Subject
variety      Linear Algebra                0/4                 0               0                1                0                0
Integral                      1/7                5/3              0                4                1                0
of           Equation                      8/4                2/6              0                2                5                0
examples
Statistics                    8/4                 1               0                2                2                0
Matrices                      8/4                5/3              0                2                1                0
Coordinates                   1/7                1/6              0                4                3                0
Logarithm                     1/2                5/3              0                3                1                0
Function
Real life
49/4              50/8             46/2             118              96               55
Professional life              18               21/2             10/9             43               40               13
3)Contex     School
t of         Mathematics                   2/1                2/1             0/8               5                4                1
1/2                2/1             0/8               3                4                1
examples     Individual                     5                 5/3             0/8              12               10                1
Game
0                  0              0/8               0                0                1
Table  6: Analysis   of the  responses   to the second   open-ended    question
Experimental
Category        Sub-category                Illustrative quote             Mathematical            science            Humanities
f         f %        f       f %       f           f %
No response                                                 101       42/2       80      42/3       54         45/3
1)Quality   of
examples         No Answer                                                    14        5/9       28      14/8       16         13/4
Yes Answer                                                  124       51/9       81      42/9       49         41/2
Make    our   life more    practical
When      constructing     buildings
Affecting scores in courses               50       20/9       33      17/5       33         27/7
Real life                                                    13        5/4       6        3/2       4           3/4
Professional life  Improving              mathematics        1         0/4       1        0/5       2           1/7
2)Context of                        achievement
examples         School             Mathematical     understanding    is      6         1/8       45      23/8       21         17/6
Mathematics                                                  3         1/2       1        0/5       0            0
Individual         important.                                28       11/7       4        2/1       7           5/9
Providing    reasonable    thinking
Increasing  motivation                    21        8/9       8        4/2       1           0/8
# Split   Polarity       Feature            Source
103         0.60          study        press release
94          1.29      mesothelioma          abstract
86          0.18           95               abstract
75          -0.35       alzheimer           abstract
62          0.46         patients      press release
60          0.58           use         press release
45          0.24         protein       press release
44          0.21          health            abstract
41          -0.14          cell             abstract
40          0.13        evidence            abstract
39          -0.20        protein            abstract
39          0.82           diet        press release
38          0.61          years        press release
38          0.64         people        press release
38          0.20       participants         abstract
33          0.34          issue        press release
31          0.24          world             abstract
31          0.59        evidence       press release
28          0.16          body              abstract
28          0.16          years             abstract
Agents               Date         Indication                                                                       Age
approved
>65  (%)    >75 (%)
Ixabepilone [22]     10/2007      Combination   with capecitabine in metastatic or locally advanced           10       <1
breast cancer resistant to treatment with an anthracycline and a
taxane
10/2007      Monotherapy   in metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer resistant     13       3
to anthracyclines, taxanes, and capecitabine
Eribulin [23]        11/2010      Third-line treatment metastatic breast cancer                               15       2
Everolimus  [21]     7/2012       Advanced   hormone  receptor-positive, HER2-negative  breast cancer in      40       15
combination  with exemestane,  after failure of treatment with
letrozole or anastrozole
Ado-trastuzumab      2/2013       HER2-positive   breast cancer following treatment with trastuzumab          13       2
emtansine  [24]                    and a taxane
Pertuzumab  [25]     6/2012       Combination   with trastuzumab  and docetaxel in HER2-positive              15       1
metastatic breast cancer who have not received prior anti-HER2
therapy
Lapatinib [26, 27]   1/2010       Combination   with capecitabine in metastatic HER2-positive breast          17       1
cancer
Combination   with letrozole in metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer      44       12
Drug  Name  (Brand Name)                     Biomarker(s)                    Indication(s)
Oncology  (cont.)
96      Ponatinib (Iclusig®)                         BCR-ABL1                        Chronic lymphocytic  leukemia,
acute lymphocytic leukemia
97      Rituximab  (Rituxan®)                        MS4A1                           Non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma,
chronic lymphocytic leukemia,
and autoimmune   diseases
98      Tamoxifen  (Nolvadex®)                       ESR1; ESR2; PGR;  F5; F2;       Breast cancer
CYP2D6
99      Thioguanine  (Tabloid®)                      TPMT                            Acute myeloid leukemia, acute
lymphocytic leukemia, and
chronic myeloid leukemia
100     Tositumomab   (Bexxar®)                      MS4A1                           Non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma
101     Trametinib (Mekinist®)                       BRAF                            Melanoma
102     Trastuzumab  (Herceptin®)                    ERBB2                           Breast cancer
103     Tretinoin (Vesanoid®)                        PML  / RARɑ                     Acute promyelocytic  leukemia
104     Vemurafenib  (ZelborafTM)                    BRAF; NRAS                      Melanoma
Psychiatry
105     Aripiprazole (Abilify®)                      CYP2D6                          Schizophrenia, bipolar disorder
106     Amitriptyline (Elavil®)                      CYP2D6;  CYP2C19                Depression
107     Atomoxetine  (Strattera®)                    CYP2D6                          ADHD
108     Citalopram  (Celexa®)                        CYP2C19                         Depression
109     Clomipramine   (Anafranil®)                  CYP2D6                          Depression
110     Clozapine (Clozaril®)                        CYP2D6                          Schizophrenia
111     Desipramine  (Norpramin®)                    CYP2D6                          Depression
112     Doxepin  (Silenor®)                          CYP2D6;  CYP2C19                Insomnia, depression
113     Fluoxetine (Prozac®)                         CYP2D6                          Depression
114     Fluvoxamine  (Luvox CR®)                     CYP2D6                          Obsessive compulsive disorders
115     Iloperidone (Fanapt®)                        CYP2D6                          Schizophrenia
116     Imipramine  (Tofranil-PM®)                   CYP2D6;  CYP2C19                Depression
117     Nortriptyline (Pamelor®)                     CYP2D6                          Depression
118     Paroxetine (Pexeva®)                         CYP2D6                          Major depressive disorder,
obsessive compulsive disorder,
panic disorder, and generalized
anxiety disorder
119     Perphenazine  (Trilafon®)                    CYP2D6                          Schizophrenia
120     Pimozide  (Orap®)                            CYP2D6                          Tourette’s syndrome
target word       CUI De(cid:2)nition ST De(cid:2)nition
c1  c2   c3  c1 c2   c3
adjustment        41   9   48  31 19   10
blood pressure    26  18    0  20 31   22
degree             0   0       15 23
evaluation        54   0       33 17
growth            91  91       20 19
immunosuppression 130 41       30 20
mosaic nutrition  152 0 38 152 0 0 10 10 10 31 23 30
radiation         71  207      14 30
repair             0  51       30 20
scale              0  10   144 47 23   8
sensitivity        0   0    0  25 50   22
white              0  60       15 28
Table 8  Success rates (%) in development   2009–2014   for MMV  compared    to benchmark   data, by phase
MMV                                                       CMRa                         PBFb
Excluding LCMc               Including LCM
Per phase    Cumu-lative     Per phase    Cumu-lative     Per phase    Cumu-lative     Per phase    Cumu-lative
Preclinical     50             8             50           14              60           5               40           3
Phase I         70            16             70           27              56           9               54           7
Phase IIa       75            23             78           39              36          16               34          13
Phase IIb       60d           30             75           50              60d         45               60d         38
Phase III       50            50             67           67              84          75               70          64
Registration   100          100             100          100              89          89               91          91
95%  CI
Fixed effects     Estimate   Lower    Upper    t Ratio   P (cid:4) (cid:1)t(cid:1)
Open   access       1.01      0.95     1.08      0.43    0.669
Self-archived       1.11      0.92     1.33      1.11    0.266
Review  article     1.63      1.46     1.82      8.52    (cid:5).0001
Number    of
authorsa          1.26      1.21     1.32    10.07     (cid:5).0001
Page  lengtha       1.56      1.44     1.69    10.66     (cid:5).0001
95%  CI
Random     Variance    Variance                     Percentage
effects      ratio    component    Lower    Upper     of total
Journal      1.86        0.96       0.62     1.67        65
Residual                 0.51       0.49     0.54        35
Total                    1.47                           100
Počet        Sazba za       Rozpočet  dle    Vyčerpáno  celkem    Odchylka       Odchylka
Náklady                                             Jednotka    jednotek   jednotku (v €)      smlouvy               v €             (v €)          (v %)               Vysvětlete odchylky od schváleného  rozpočtu:
5. Jiné   náklady,    služby
5.1 Publikace**                                                                                                0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.2 Studie, výzkum**                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.3 Audit                                                                                                      0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.4 Evaluační náklady                                                                                          0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.5 Překlad, tlumočníci                                                                                        0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.6 Finanční služby (bankovní garance, atd.)                                                                   0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.7 Náklady na konferenci/semináře**                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet    jiných   nákladů   a služeb                                                                                                         0           0.00   €        0.00 €     #DIV/0!
6. Jiné
6.1. (…)                                                                                                       0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.2.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.3.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.4.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet    jiných   nákladů                                                                                                                    0           0.00   €        0.00 €     #DIV/0!
7.  Mezisoučet        přímých      nákladů     projektu     (1.  - 6.)                                                                     0.00   €           0.00   €
8. Administrativní náklady (maximálně 7 % z 8., přímé způsobilé náklady projektu)                                    #DIV/0!                 0.00 €             0.00 €
9.  Celkové     náklady     (7.  + 8.)                                                                                                     0.00   €           0.00   €
Measured        Include                                                              Exclude
in
Serum           Provit A carotenoids:  Carotene, B-carotene,  Alpha-carotene         Prealbumin
Nonprovit  A  carotenoids: Carotenoids,  Lycopene,                   Minerals:  Zinc, Copper,  Copper/zinc  ratio, Zinc/retinol
Cryptoxanthin  (B-), Lutein+zeaxanthin                               ratio
Vit E: alpha-tocopherol,  gamma   tocopherol                         Other  dietary lipids: Cholesterol, Triglycerides
Selenium                                                             Saturated  fatty acids, Monounsaturated  fatty acids,
n-3 fatty acids: EPA  (Eicosapentaenoic),  DHA                       Polyunsaturated  fatty acids
(Docosahexaenoic)                                                    Lipids (as nutrients), Total fat (as nutrients), Total
Magnesium                                                            protein
Vit A: Retinol &Retinol   Binding Protein
Pyridoxic  acid (vit B6)
Phytoestrogen:  Genistein, Daidzein
Chemical  food  contaminants
Polychlorinated  biphenyls  (PCBs)
Phytochemicals
Urine           4-pyridoxic  acid (vit B6) in 24-h urine                             Nitrosamines
Xanthurenic   acid in 24-h urine
Arsenic
Ferritin
Saliva                                                                               Other  dietary lipids: Cholesterol, Triglycerides
Erythrocyte     Linoleic acid                                                        Minerals:  Zinc, Copper
Selenium                                                             Monounsaturated    fatty acids
Superoxide  dismutase                                                n-3 fatty acids: EPA  (Eicosapentaenoic),  DHA
Cadmium                                                              (Docosahexaenoic)
n-6 fatty acids (other than linoleic acid)
Polyunsaturated  fatty acids, Saturated fatty acids
Glutathione  peroxidase
Cancer
$        $         %         $           $                  %
Breast*      90610    8489      9.37      82121       130909    0.5941   17.4    0.1034
Breast       38130    4330      11.35     33801       60861     0.8006   16      0.1281
Prostate     28275    1770      6.26      26505       37566     0.4173   16      0.0668
Lung         82897    20787     25.08     62110       90201     0.4523   74      0.3347
Colorectal   75170    16623     22.11     58546       94684     0.6172   46      0.2839
Melanoma     12541    5085      40.55     7456        40691     4.4573   15.3    0.682
Cancer        Estimated     SD, %   Estimated      Estimated                                Estimated
National              New Cases in   Per-new-                %       %        National
Spending in           2017,          incidence                                Cost-
2017, $M              #              Spending in                              savings,
2017, $                                  $M
All Sites     152901.1      8.49    1688780        90539        ---        ---     ---      25902
Bladder       4543.33       6.41    79030          57489        0.5202     12.42   6.07     276
Brain         5604.18       11.58   23800          235470       0.5232     39.94   17.28    968
Breast        19478.58      7.81    252710         77079        0.5941     17.4    9.37     1562
Cervix        1441.05       10.69   12820          112406       0.5232     34.71   15.37    221
Colorectal    15727.4       9.29    135430         116129       0.6172     46      22.11    3477
Esophagus     1857.85       15.09   16940          109672       0.5232     60.99   24.19    449
Oral          4101.55       9.34    49670          82576        0.5232     62.41   24.62    1010
Kidney        5487.4        13.12   63990          85754        0.5232     33.36   14.86    815
Leukemia      6772.22       8.72    62130          109001       0.5232     39.94   17.28    1170
Lung          13693.22      11.31   222500         61543        0.4523     74      25.08    3434
Lymphoma      15096.07      8.76    80500          187529       0.5232     39.94   17.28    2609
Melanoma      3308.32       10.28   87110          37979        4.4573     15.3    40.55    1342
Ovary         5338.73       11.32   22440          237911       0.5232     61.89   24.46    1306
Pancreas      3040.12       16.06   53670          56645        0.5232     66.45   25.8     784
Prostate      14873.72      5.47    161360         92177        0.4173     16      6.26     931
Stomach       2074.28       11.88   28000          74081        0.5232     60.56   24.06    499
Uterus        2947.42       9.08    61380          48019        0.5232     21.14   9.96     294
Other         27515.67      10.11   275300         99948        0.5232     39.94   17.28    4755
SVM:  One  vs. All Schema
Feature
Set         Kernel              Average Accuracy            StdErr
L1    L2      +      -      =       !      OA
1         R      R     0.88    0.9   0.87    0.88    0.87   0.0289
1+3       L      P     0.83    0.9   0.73    1       0.84   0.0312
1+4       P      P     0.85    0.9   0.67    1       0.84   0.0303
1+5       L      L     0.78    0.8   0.73    1       0.8    0.0339
1+6       R      R     0.85    0.9   0.73    1       0.85   0.0145
2         R      R     0.87    0.8   0.87    0.88    0.86   0.027
2+3       L      R     0.8     0.9   0.93    1       0.86   0.0245
2+4       P      P     0.87    0.9   0.73    1       0.86   0.014
2+5       P      R     0.88    0.9   0.87    1       0.89   0.0222
2+6       R      R     0.85    0.8   0.87    1       0.86   0.031
2+3+6     R      R     0.8     0.7   0.93    1       0.84   0.0204
2+4+6     P      P     0.9     0.7   0.73    1       0.85   0.0177
2+5+6     L      R     0.83    0.7   0.8     1       0.82   0.0235
SVM:   Two vs. Two  Schema
Feature Set Kernel              Average Accuracy            StdErr
L1    L2      +      -      =       !      OA
1         L      P     0.95    0.9   0.6     1       0.88   0.0189
1+3       R      P     0.98    0.9   0.4     1       0.85   0.0261
1+4       L      P     0.95    0.9   0.73    1       0.91   0.0234
1+5       R      P     0.98    0.9   0.4     1       0.85   0.0108
1+6       R      P     0.92    0.8   0.6     1       0.85   0.014
2         R      R     0.98    0.9   0.53    1       0.88   0.0239
2+3       L      P     0.95    0.8   0.4     1       0.82   0.0144
2+4       L      P     0.95    0.9   0.73    1       0.91   0.0118
2+5       R      P     0.97    0.9   0.47    1       0.86   0.0262
2+6       R      P     0.97    0.7   0.53    1       0.85   0.0189
2+3+6     R      L     0.93    0.9   0.53    1       0.85   0.0203
2+4+6     L      L     0.9     0.9   0.73    1       0.88   0.017
2+5+6     L      P     0.97    0.6   0.4     1       0.81   0.0139
Disease               Objective                                             Tools  &  Algorithms  used                  References
Tool: Weka                                  [10]
An  Efficient Prediction of Breast Cancer Data
Breast cancer         using  Data Mining  Techniques.                       Algorithm:SVM   classifier.
Tools: Weka   & MATLAB                      [35]
Diagnosis  of
Heart  Disease  using Data  mining Algorithm          Algorithms:  Decision Stump,
Heart                                                                       Random    Fores  and  LMT  Tree
Disease                                                                     Tool: TANAGRA
[36]
Algorithms:  Naive Bayes,  Decision
Predictive data  mining for medical diagnosis: An     Tree  and ANN.
overview  of Heart disease  prediction.
Traditional Classification algorithms       [37]
Proposed   a system  for Heart disease  prediction    like j48, Naive Bayes, Neural  Networks
using  data mining techniques.                        and  GNP
Decision  tree,                             [39]
Applying  K-nearest  neighbor  in diagnosing Heart    Classification via clustering and Naive
Heart                 disease  patients                                     Bayes
Disease                                                                     Tool: Weka
To  design a predictive model  for heart disease                                                  [40]
detection  to enhance  their liability of             Algorithms:
Heart  disease diagnosis.                             Decision  Tree, Neural  Network  and
Bayesian   Classifier
[38]
Kidney  Stone         Statistical and data mining aspects  on kidney        Classification techniques: Decision
stones:  A systematic review  and meta  analysis.     tree, ANN  and  Naive Bayes
Lung  Cancer                                                                                                            [41],[42]
&                Early prevention  and detection  of skin cancer       Apriori Tid, Decision Tree, K-means
Skin Cancer           and  lung cancer  risk using data mining.             and  Medoid  based  clustering
Liver Disorder        Performance   evaluation  of different data mining    Classification of medical data using        [43]
classification algorithm and predictive analysis.     Bayesian   Ying Yang  (BYY)  Algorithm
Diagnosis  of lung cancer  prediction system using    Rule  based  Classification algorithm       [44]
Lung  Cancer          data  mining classification techniques                like IF-THEN  Rule, Decision  tree,
Bayesian   classifiers and Neural
networks.
Tool: TANAGRA
Kidney  dialysis      Performance   comparison   of three data mining       Algorithms:  ANN,                           [45]
techniques  for predicting kidney dialysis            Decision  Tree(C5),
survivability                                         Logical Regression
Tools:                                      [46]
Acute  Abdominal      An  improved  Medical  Diagnosing  of Acute           C++  &  MATLAB
Pain                  Abdominal   Pain with Decision  Tree                  Algorithms:  CART   & OC1
Tool: Cross  Validation model               [47]
Existence  of
Helicobacter          Helicobacter   pylori microbe  and  detecting  with   Algorithms:
pylori Microbe        data  mining Algorithms                               RBF   Network, Naïve  Bayes,  PART,
Decision  Tree, Logistic Regression.
Classification of Liver Based Diseases   using        Tool: Weka                                  [34]
Liver Based           Random    Tree
Diseases                                                                    Algorithm: Random    Decision  Tree
Tool: MATLAB                                [32]
Clinical Data Analysis  Reveals  Three Sub  types
of Gastric Cancer                                     Algorithm: Hierarchical Clustering.
Gastric Cancer        A  new  algorithm to extract hidden rules of          Tool: MATLAB                                [48]
Gastric cancer  data based  on  Ontology
Algorithm: Mixture  of Apriori Algorithm
and  Ontology
Near Term  Options                                                         Next Term  Options
Strike Price        Call             Put           Difference              Strike Price         Call             Put           Difference
1940            38.45            15.25            23.20                     1940             41.05            18.80            22.25
1945            34.70            16.55            18.15                     1945             37.45            20.20            17.25
1950            31.10            18.25            12.85                     1950             34.05            21.60            12.45
1955            27.60            19.75             7.85                     1955             30.60            23.20            7.40
1960            24.25            21.30             2.95                     1960            27.30            24.90             2.40
1965            21.05            23.15             2.10                     1965             24.15            26.90            2.75
1970            18.10            25.05             6.95                     1970             21.10            28.95            7.85
1975            15.25            27.30            12.05                     1975             18.30            31.05            12.75
1980            12.75            29.75            17.00                     1980             15.70            33.50            17.80
Class of drugs                            Eeg frequencies                                                                      Treatment  indications
Delta            Theta            Alpha            Sigma           Beta/Gamma
(0.5–1.5 Hz)     (5.5–8.5 Hz)     (8.5–11 Hz)      (12–16 Hz)      (21–32 Hz)
Benzodiazepines  (BZDs)                                                     Decrease         Increase        Increase          Anxiety
Sedation
Barbiturates                                                                                 Increase        Increase          Anxiety
Sedation
Epilepsy
Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs)          decrease         Decrease                                          Increase          Depression
SSRI Antidepressants                      decrease                          Increase                                           Depression
Anxiety
OCD
Amphetamines                              decrease         Decrease                                          increase          Somnolence
Narcolepsy
AD/HD
Opiates                                   increase                          decrease                                           Pain
Anticonvulsants                                            increase                                                            Epilepsy
Phenytoin, valproate, carbamazepine
Gamma   hydroxy  butyrate (GHB)           increase                                                                             Cataplexy
Narcolepsy
Classic Neuroleptics                                       increase         decrease         decrease                          Schizophrenia
Psychosis
Počet        Sazba za       Rozpočet  dle    Vyčerpáno  celkem    Odchylka       Odchylka
Náklady                                             Jednotka    jednotek   jednotku (v €)      smlouvy               v €             (v €)          (v %)               Vysvětlete odchylky od schváleného  rozpočtu:
5. Jiné   náklady,    služby
5.1 Publikace**                                                                                                0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.2 Studie, výzkum**                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.3 Audit                                                                                                      0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.4 Evaluační náklady                                                                                          0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.5 Překlad, tlumočníci                                                                                        0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.6 Finanční služby (bankovní garance, atd.)                                                                   0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.7 Náklady na konferenci/semináře**                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet    jiných   nákladů   a služeb                                                                                                         0           0.00   €        0.00 €     #DIV/0!
6. Jiné
6.1. (…)                                                                                                       0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.2.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.3.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.4.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet    jiných   nákladů                                                                                                                    0           0.00   €        0.00 €     #DIV/0!
7.  Mezisoučet        přímých      nákladů     projektu     (1.  - 6.)                                                                     0.00   €           0.00   €
8. Administrativní náklady (maximálně 7 % z 8., přímé způsobilé náklady projektu)                                    #DIV/0!                 0.00 €             0.00 €
9.  Celkové     náklady     (7.  + 8.)                                                                                                     0.00   €           0.00   €
Day                       Week
Features                        NDCG@10      NDCG@7       NDCG@35      NDCG@70
Metadata (excluding hasPR)        0.4114       0.4513       0.4460       0.4068
Metadata                          0.5485       0.6758       0.6148       0.5740
Metadata + Title                  0.6112       0.7615       0.6778       0.6097
All Articles     Metadata + Abstract               0.6116       0.7935       0.6920       0.6284
Metadata + Press Release          0.5957       0.7563       0.6943       0.6344
Metadata + Title + Abstract       0.6114       0.8236       0.6944       0.6280
Metadata + Title + Press Release  0.6209       0.8107       0.7282       0.6472
Title + Abstract + Press Release  0.6273       0.8868       0.7076       0.6416
All Features                      0.6354       0.8841       0.7313       0.6621
Metadata                          0.5101       0.4775       0.4433       0.5307
Metadata + Title                  0.5362       0.4782       0.4584       0.5259
Metadata + Abstract               0.5611       0.5629       0.5085       0.5721
Conditioned on   Metadata + Press Release          0.5841       0.6015       0.5315       0.6009
Press Release   Metadata + Title + Abstract       0.5657       0.6020       0.4936       0.5597
Metadata + Title + Press Release  0.5888       0.6036       0.5350       0.6050
Title + Abstract + Press Release  0.5902       0.5526       0.5251       0.5904
All Features                      0.6065       0.6156       0.5559       0.6106
Dependent        Independent  Variable     Students                                          Comparison
Variable       (Learning Model/Style)        (n)      Mean       σ         F       Sig.
Critical        Experimental group          34       17.62     3.28                      Experimental  >
thinking            Control group            34       14.21     2.87                          Control
ability                                                                 20.80*   .000
Achievement        Experimental group          35       19.26     3.64                      Experimental  >
Control group            35       18.83     3.24                          Control
Independent      Students
Dependent   Variable     Variable          (n)        Mean          σ          F         Sig     Comparison
Critical thinking       Pre-test         34         17.62        3.28                          Experimental
ability           Post-test         34         14.38        2.73                            > Control
20.51*     .000
Pre-test         35         19.26        3.64                          Experimental
Achievement           Post-test         35         12.83        2.62                            > Control
Side                               mean       σ       Satisfaction level   Rank
Content                               4.56     0.12     most  appropriate      1
Learning management   activities                 4.47     0.07        very suitable       3
Learning management   media                     4.50     0.18     most  appropriate      2
Benefits and satisfaction                     4.47     0.07        very suitable       3
Measurement   and evaluation                    4.47     0.07        very suitable       3
Average                               4.49     0.10        very suitable
Disorder                                         Description
Adjustment   (Acute) Insomnia                    The  essential feature of this disorder is the presence of insomnia in association with an iden-
tifiable stressor, such as psychosocial,  physical, or environmental   disturbances. The  sleep
disturbance  has a relatively short duration (days-weeks)  and is expected to resolve when  the
stressor resolves.
Psychophysiological  Insomnia                    The  essential features of this disorder are heightened arousal and learned sleep-preventing as-
sociations. Arousal may  be physiological, cognitive, or emotional, and characterized by muscle
tension, “racing thoughts,” or heightened  awareness  of the environment.  Individuals typically
have  increased concern  about sleep difficulties and their consequences, leading to a “vicious
cycle” of arousal, poor sleep, and frustration.
Paradoxical  Insomnia                            The  essential feature of this disorder is a complaint of severe or nearly “total” insomnia that
greatly exceeds  objective evidence  of sleep disturbance and is not commensurate   with the re-
ported  degree of daytime  deficit. Although paradoxical insomnia  is best diagnosed  with con-
current PSG   and  self-reports, it can be presumptively diagnosed  on  clinical grounds alone.
To  some  extent, “misperception”   of the severity of sleep disturbance  may   characterize all
insomnia  disorders.
Idiopathic Insomnia                              The  essential feature of this disorder is a persistent complaint of insomnia with insidious on-
set during infancy  or early childhood and no  or few extended  periods of sustained remission.
Idiopathic insomnia  is not associated with specific precipitating or perpetuating factors.
Insomnia  Due  to Mental  Disorder               The  essential feature of this disorder is the occurrence of insomnia   that occurs exclusively
during  the course of a mental disorder, and is judged to be caused by that disorder. The insom-
nia is of sufficient severity to cause distress or to require separate treatment. This diagnosis is
not used  to explain insomnia that has a course independent  of the associated mental  disorder,
as is not routinely made   in individuals with the “usual”  severity of sleep symptoms   for an
associated  mental disorder.
Inadequate  Sleep Hygiene                        The  essential feature of this disorder is insomnia associated with voluntary sleep practices or
activities that are inconsistent with good sleep quality and daytime alertness. These practices
and  activities typically produce increased  arousal or directly interfere with sleep, and may
include  irregular sleep scheduling, use of alcohol, caffeine, or nicotine, or engaging in non-
sleep behaviors  in the sleep environment. Some  element  of poor sleep hygiene may  character-
ize individuals with other insomnia  disorders.
Insomnia  Due  to a Drug or Substance            The  essential feature of this disorder is sleep disruption due to use of a prescription medica-
tion, recreational drug, caffeine, alcohol, food, or environmental  toxin. Insomnia  may  occur
during  periods of use/exposure,  or during discontinuation.  When   the identified substance is
stopped,  and after discontinuation effects subside, the insomnia is expected to resolve or sub-
stantially improve.
Insomnia  Due  to Medical  Condition             The  essential feature of this disorder is insomnia  caused  by a  coexisting medical  disorder
or other physiological  factor. Although  insomnia  is commonly   associated  with many  medi-
cal conditions, this diagnosis  should be used  when  the insomnia   causes marked   distress or
warrants  separate clinical attention. This diagnosis is not used to explain insomnia that has a
course  independent  of the associated medical disorder, and is not routinely made in individu-
als with the “usual” severity of sleep symptoms   for an associated medical  disorder.
Insomnia  Not  Due  to Substance or Known        These  two  diagnoses are used  for insomnia disorders that cannot be classified elsewhere  but
Physiologic  Condition,  Unspecified;           are suspected  to be related to underlying mental disorders, psychological  factors, behaviors,
Physiologic  (Organic)  Insomnia,               medical  disorders, physiological states, or substance use or exposure. These  diagnoses  are
Unspecified                                     typically used  when  further evaluation is required to identify specific associated conditions,
Código                               Descrição do                           Dente/face/           Código
TuSS                               procedimento                               Região              TuSS
DIAGNÓSTICO
81000030         Consulta odontológica                                         ASAI               85200115
81000065         Consulta odontológica inicial                                 ASAI               85200123
81000073         Consulta odontológica para avaliação técnica de auditoria     ASAI               85200131
81000111         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  citologia               SEXTANTE              85200140
esfoliativa na região buco-maxilo-facial                                         85200158
81000138         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  material de             SEXTANTE              85200166
biópsia na região buco-maxilo-facial
81000154         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  peça cirúrgica          SEXTANTE              82000034
na região buco-maxilo-facial                                                     82000077
81000170         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  punção na               SEXTANTE              82000085
região buco-maxilo-facial                                                        82000158
84000244         Teste de fluxo salivar                                        ASAI               82000166
uRGêNCIA   E EMERGêNCIA                                              82000174
81000049         Consulta odontológica de Urgência                             ASAI               82000182
81000057         Consulta odontológica de Urgência 24 hs                       ASAI               82000239
82001022         Incisão e Drenagem  extra-oral de abscesso,               HEMI-ARCO              82000247
hematoma   e/ou flegmão da região buco-maxilo-facial                             82000255
82001030         Incisão e Drenagem  intra-oral de abscesso,                 GRUPO                82000263
hematoma   e/ou flegmão  da região buco-maxilo-facial                            82000271
82001197         Redução  simples de luxação de Articulação                    ASAI               82000280
Têmporo-mandibular   (ATM)                                                       82000298
82001251         Reimplante  dentário com contenção                           DENTE               82000301
82001499         Sutura de ferida em região buco-maxilo-facial               GRUPO                82000352
82001650         Tratamento  de alveolite                                     DENTE               82000360
85100048         Colagem  de fragmentos  dentários                            DENTE               82000387
85200034         Pulpectomia                                                  DENTE               82000395
85300063         Tratamento  de abscesso periodontal agudo                   GRUPO                82000786
85300071         Tratamento  de gengivite necrosante aguda - GNA             GRUPO                82000794
85300080         Tratamento  de pericoronarite                               GRUPO                82000808
85400041         Conserto em  prótese parcial removível                    HEMI-ARCO              82000816
(exclusivamente em  consultório)                                                 82000832
85400068         Conserto em  prótese total                                  ARCADA
(exclusivamente em  consultório)                                                 82000859
85400467         Recimentação  de trabalhos protéticos                        DENTE               82000875
RADIOLOGIA                                                     82000883
81000383         Radiografia oclusal                                           ASAI               82000891
81000278         Fotografia                                                HEMI-ARCO              82000905
81000294         Levantamento  Radiográfico (Exame  Radiodôntico)              ASAI               82000913
81000375         Radiografia interproximal - bite-wing                     HEMI-ARCO              82001073
81000405         Radiografia panorâmica de                                     ASAI               82001103
mandíbula/maxila  (ortopantomografia)                                            82001170
81000421         Radiografia periapical                                      GRUPO                82001189
Prevenção                                                    82001286
84000031         Aplicação de cariostático                                    DENTE               82001294
84000058         Aplicação de selante - técnica invasiva                      DENTE               82001510
84000074         Aplicação de selante de fóssulas e fissuras                  DENTE               82001529
84000090         Aplicação tópica de flúor                                     ASAI               82001545
84000139         Atividade educativa em saúde bucal                            ASAI
84000163         Controle de biofilme (placa bacteriana)                       ASAI               82001553
84000198         Profilaxia: polimento coronário                               ASAI
85300055         Remoção   dos fatores de retenção do                       SEXTANTE              82001588
Biofilme Dental (Placa Bacteriana)
87000016         Atividade educativa em odontologia para pais e/ou             ASAI               82001596
cuidadores de pacientes com necessidades especiais
87000024         Atividade educativa para pais e/ou cuidadores                 ASAI               82001618
DENTíSTICA
85100013         Capeamento   pulpar direto                                   DENTE               82001634
85100064         Faceta direta em resina fotopolimerizável                 DENTE/  FACE
85100099         Restauração de amálgama   - 1 face                        DENTE/  FACE           82001642
85100102         Restauração de amálgama   - 2 faces                       DENTE/  FACE
85100110         Restauração de amálgama   - 3 faces                       DENTE/  FACE           82001707
85100129         Restauração de amálgama   - 4 faces                       DENTE/  FACE           82001715
85100196         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 1 face           DENTE/  FACE
85100200         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 2 faces          DENTE/  FACE           81000014
85100218         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 3 faces          DENTE/  FACE           83000020
85100226         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 4 faces          DENTE/  FACE           83000046
ou mais faces                                                                    83000062
85400017         Ajuste Oclusal por acréscimo                                ARCADA               83000089
85400025         Ajuste Oclusal por desgaste seletivo                        ARCADA               83000127
85400211         Núcleo de preenchimento                                      DENTE               83000151
PERIODONTIA                                                 87000032
82000212         Aumento   de coroa clínica                                  GRUPO
82000336         Cirurgia odontológica a retalho                            SEXTANTE
82000417         Cirurgia periodontal a retalho                             SEXTANTE              85400076
82000557         Cunha  proximal                                             GRUPO                85400084
82000921         Gengivectomia                                              SEXTANTE              85400114
82000948         Gengivoplastia                                             SEXTANTE              85400149
82001464         Sepultamento  radicular                                      DENTE               85400220
85300020         Imobilização dentária em dentes permanentes                 GRUPO                85400262
85300039         Raspagem   sub-gengival/alisamento radicular               SEXTANTE              85400432
85300047         Raspagem   supra-gengival                                    AS; AI              85400440
ENDODONTIA                                                  85400459
85200042         Pulpotomia                                                   DENTE               85400556
85200077         Remoção   de núcleo intrarradicular                          DENTE               87000040
85200093         Retratamento  endodôntico  birradicular                      DENTE               87000059
85200107         Retratamento  endodôntico  multirradicular                   DENTE               87000067
Exact     Rescaled    Rounded   to 0.5
(0(cid:3)100) (0(cid:3)10) (0(cid:3)10)
Joint involvement*
1 large                          0         0               0
(cid:5)1(cid:3)10 large, asymmetric 10.2   1.02            1
(cid:5)1(cid:3)10 large, symmetric 16.1    1.61            1.5
1(cid:3)3 small                 21.2       2.12            2
4(cid:3)10 small                28.8       2.88            3
(cid:5)10, including at least 1 50.8       5.08            5
small joint
Serology†
Negative  RF  and                0         0               0
negative ACPA
Low-positive  RF  or            22.0       2.20            2
low-positive ACPA
High-positive  RF  or           33.9       3.39            3.5
high-positive ACPA
Acute-phase   reactants‡
Normal   CRP   and               0         0               0
normal  ESR
Abnormal    CRP  or              5.9       0.59            0.5
abnormal  ESR
Duration  of symptoms§
(cid:4)6 weeks                   0         0               0
(cid:2)6 weeks                   9.3       0.93            1
Site               Absolute   percentage   increase  in        Survival  rate 2010–2014
survival rate 2000–2004     and  2010–
2014
Cervix             +14.3%:   China                             60–69%:   Canada,   USA, Brazil, Puerto Rico, China, Hong
+8–10%:   India, Bulgaria, Estonia,         Kong  SAR,  Singapore,  Israel, Turkey, 18 countries in
Switzerland                                 Europe,  Australia, New  Zealand
+4–7%:   Cuba,  Israel, Japan, Republic     50–59%:   Argentina,  Ecuador,  Martinique, Peru, Uruguay,
of Korea, Denmark,   Ireland, Lithuania,    India, Kuwait, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Poland, Russian
Norway,  the United  Kingdom,   Poland      Federation,  Malta
Ovary              +20%:   Japan                               40–49%:   Canada,   USA, Singapore,  China,  Taiwan
+10–20%:    Estonia, Latvia                 (China), Republic of Korea,  Japan, Israel, Turkey,
Denmark,   Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Norway,
+5–10%:   USA,  Israel, Republic of         Sweden,   Portugal, Spain, Austria, Belgium, France,
Korea, Taiwan  (China), Denmark,            Germany,   Switzerland, Australia
Iceland, Ireland, Norway, Sweden,
Portugal, Spain, Bulgaria, Poland,          30–39%:   Argentina,  Brazil, Ecuador, Puerto Rico, Kuwait,
France, Switzerland, Australia              Thailand, Ireland, Lithuania, the United Kingdom,
Croatia, Italy, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Poland,
Russian  Federation, Slovakia, the Netherlands,  New
Zealand
<30%:   Malta, India
Prostate           +>20%:    Japan, Republic  of Korea,        ≈100%:    Puerto  Rico, Martinique, USA
Malaysia, Denmark,   Estonia, Ireland,      90–100%:   Brazil, Costa Rica, Canada,  Israel, Japan,
Latvia, Lithuania, the United Kingdom,      Republic  of Korea, Iceland, Ireland, Finland, Latvia,
Slovenia, Bulgaria, Czech  Republic,        Lithuania, Norway,  Sweden,   Italy, Portugal, Spain,
Poland                                      Austria, Belgium, France,  Germany,  Australia, New
+10–20%:    Israel, Taiwan (China),         Zealand
Thailand, Finland, Iceland, Norway,         80–89%:   Argentina,  Ecuador,  Uruguay,  Malaysia,
Sweden,   Croatia, Italy, Malta, Spain,     Singapore,  Taiwan  (China), Kuwait, Turkey, Denmark,
France, Germany,   the Netherlands,         Estonia, the United  Kingdom,  Croatia, Malta, Slovenia,
Switzerland, Australia                      Czech  Republic,  the Netherlands,  Switzerland
+5–10%:   Brazil, Ecuador, Canada,          70–80%:    Russian  Federation, Poland, Romania,   Slovakia
China, Turkey, Austria, Portugal, New
Zealand                                     50–70%:   China,  Mauritius, Bulgaria, Thailand
<50%:   India
Brain  (adults)    +6–10%:   USA,  China, Republic  of         >40%:   Croatia
Korea, Singapore,  Denmark,   Estonia,      30–40%:   Canada,   USA, Puerto  Rico, Martinique,
Ireland, the United Kingdom,   Malta,       Singapore,  China, Republic  of Korea, Israel, Kuwait,
Spain, the Netherlands,  Australia          Turkey, Denmark,   Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Norway,
+3–5%:   Martinique,  Canada,  Israel,      Sweden,   Belgium, Germany,   Switzerland, Australia
Iceland, Latvia, Norway, Sweden,            20–29%:   Chile, Ecuador,  Taiwan  (China), Iceland, Latvia,
Croatia, Italy, France, Switzerland, New    the United  Kingdom,   Italy, Malta, Portugal, Slovenia,
Zealand                                     Spain, Czech  Republic,  Poland, Russian  Federation,
Slovakia, Austria, France, the Netherlands, New   Zealand
14.7%:  Thailand
POPULATION   SIZE (% OF  PATIENTS)
LUNG  CANCER               COLORECTAL    CANCER              BREAST  CANCER
STUDY  POPULATION                                                4,680 (100%)
(BEGINNING  OF YEAR)               3,425 (100%)                                                 26,755 (100%)
END  OF YEAR 1                     1,994 (57%)                    4,534 (77%)                   21,587 (81%)
END  OF YEAR 2                      996 (28%)                     2,730 (46%)                   14,193 (53%)
END  OF YEAR 3                      625 (18%)                     1,872 (32%)                   10,029 (37%)
Bacillus anthracis                                               Bacteria
Botulinum  neurotoxins (more than 0.5 mg)                        Toxin
Botulinum  neurotoxin producing species  of Clostridium          Bacteria
Brucella abortus                                                 Bacteria
Brucella melitensis                                              Bacteria
Brucella suis                                                    Bacteria
Burkholderia mallei (formerly Pseudomonas   mallei)              Bacteria
Burkholderia pseudomallei  (formerly Pseudomonas
pseudomallei)                                                    Bacteria
Clostridium perfringens epsilon toxin (more than 100 mg)         Toxin
Coccidioides immitis                                             Fungi
Coxiella burnetii                                                Bacteria
Eastern equine  encephalitis virus                               Virus
Francisella tularensis                                           Bacteria
Hendra  virus                                                    Virus
Nipah  virus                                                     Virus
Rift Valley fever virus (non-vaccine strain (MP-12))             Virus
Shigatoxin (more  than 100 mg)                                   Toxin
Staphylococcal  enterotoxins (more than 5 mg)                    Toxin
T-2 toxin (more than 1,000 mg)                                   Toxin
Venezuelan   equine encephalitis virus (non-vaccine strain (TC-
83))                                                             Virus
Liberobacter africanus                                            Bacteria
Liberobacter asiaticus                                            Bacteria
Peronosclerospora   philippinensis                                Fungi
Phakopsora   pachyrhizi                                           Fungi
Plum  pox potyvirus                                               Virus
Ralstonia solanacearum,   race 3, biovar 2                        Bacteria
Sclerophthora  rayssiae var. zeae                                 Fungi
Synchytrium  endobioticum                                         Fungi
Xanthomonas    oryzae pv. oryzicola                               Bacteria
Xylella fastidiosa (citrus variegated chlorosis strain)           Bacteria
State               School                                                                                                    City                1st Class
Alabama             Alabama   College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                                Dothan              2013
Alabama             Edward   Via College of Osteopathic Medicine   – Auburn  Campus                                           Auburn              2015
Arizona             A.T. Still University School of Osteopathic Medicine in Arizona                                           Mesa                2007
Arizona             Arizona  College of Osteopathic  Medicine  of Midwestern  University                                      Glendale            1996
California          Touro  University College of Osteopathic Medicine-California                                              Vallejo             1997
California          Western  University of Health Sciences/College  of Osteopathic Medicine  of the Pacific                   Pomona              1978
Colorado            Rocky  Vista University College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                  Parker              2008
Florida             Lake  Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine  at Bradenton                                                  Bradenton           2004
Florida             Nova  Southeastern   University College of Osteopathic Medicine                                           Davie               1981
Georgia             Philadelphia  College of Osteopathic Medicine   - Georgia Campus                                          Suwanee             2005
Illinois            Chicago  College  of Osteopathic Medicine  of Midwestern   University                                     Downers   Grove     1900
Indiana             Marian  University College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                       Indianapolis        2013
Iowa                Des  Moines  University College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                  Des Moines          1898
Kentucky            University of Pikeville Kentucky College School  of Osteopathic Medicine                                  Pikeville           1997
Maine               University of New  England  College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                              Biddeford           1978
Michigan            Michigan   State University College of Osteopathic Medicine                                               East Lansing,       1969
Detroit,            2009
Clinton             2009
Mississippi         William  Carey University College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                Hattiesburg         2010
Missouri            A.T. Still University - Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine                                        Kirksville          1892
Missouri            Kansas  City University of Medicine and Biosciences  College of Osteopathic Medicine                      Kansas  City        1916
Nevada              Touro  University Nevada  College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                Henderson           2004
New   Jersey        Rowan   University School  of Osteopathic Medicine                                                        Stratford           1977
(formerly University of Medicine  and Dentistry of New  Jersey  - School of Osteopathic Medicine)
New   Mexico        Burrell College of Osteopathic  Medicine  at New  Mexico  State University                                Las Cruces          2016
New   York          New   York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine                                        Old Westbury        1977
New   York          Touro  College of Osteopathic Medicine   – New  York                                                      Manhattan,          2007
Middletown          2014
North  Carolina     Campbell  University College  of Osteopathic Medicine                                                     Buies Creek         2013
Ohio                Ohio  University Heritage College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                Athens,             1976
Dublin,             2014
Cleveland           2015
Oklahoma            Oklahoma   State University Center for Health Sciences  College of Osteopathic  Medicine                  Tulsa               1974
Oregon              Western  University of Health Sciences/College  of Osteopathic Medicine  of the Pacific - Northwest       Lebanon             2011
Pennsylvania        Lake  Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine                                                                Erie,               1993
Seton Hill          2009
Pennsylvania        Philadelphia  College of Osteopathic Medicine                                                             Philadelphia        1899
South  Carolina     Edward   Via College of Osteopathic Medicine   – Carolinas Campus                                         Spartanburg         2011
Tennessee           Lincoln Memorial   University–DeBusk   College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                   Harrogate           2007
Texas               University of North Texas  Health Science  Center at Fort Worth/Texas  College of Osteopathic  Medi-      Fort Worth          1970
cine
Virginia            Edward   Via College of Osteopathic Medicine   – Virginia Campus                                          Blacksburg          2003
Virginia            Liberty University College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                       Lynchburg           2014
Washington          Pacific Northwest  University of Health Sciences  College of Osteopathic  Medicine                        Yakima              2008
West  Virginia      West  Virginia School of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                            Lewisburg           1974
*Note http://www.osteopathic.org/inside-aoa/accreditation/predoctoral%20accreditation/Documents/new-and-developing-colleges-of-osteopathic-medicine-and-campuses.pdf that several other colleges of osteopathic medicine not listed here are under consideration for accreditation. Find more information here:
Calls                             Puts
Strike
Bid              Ask              Bid             Ask
1430            531.30           534.80            0.05            0.40
1435            526.30           529.80            0.15            0.40
1440            521.30           524.80            0.05            0.30
1445            516.30           519.80            0.05            0.40
1450            511.30           514.80            0.15            0.25
1455            506.30           509.80            0.05            0.45
1460            501.30           504.80            0.05            0.45
1465            496.30           499.80            0.05            0.45
1470            491.30           494.80            0.05            0.45
1475            486.30           489.90            0.15            0.25
1480            481.30           484.90            0.05            0.45
1485            476.30           479.90            0.20            0.50
1490            471.30           474.90            0.05            0.30
1495            466.40           469.90            0.05            0.50
1500            461.40           464.90            0.25            0.40
1505            456.40           459.90            0.30            0.35
1510            451.40           454.90            0.05            0.55
1515            446.40           449.90            0.05            0.55
1520            441.40           445.00            0.10            0.60
1525            436.40           440.00            0.30            0.40
1530            431.40           435.00            0.05            0.60
1535            426.40           430.00            0.10            0.65
1540            421.40           425.00            0.10            0.65
1545            416.50           420.00            0.10            0.65
1550            411.50           415.00            0.30            0.70
1555            406.50           410.10            0.15            0.70
1560            401.50           405.10            0.15            0.70
1565            396.50           400.10            0.15            0.70
1570            391.50           395.10            0.20            0.75
1575            386.50           390.10            0.35            0.75
1580            381.50           385.10            0.25            0.80
1585            376.60           380.20            0.25            0.80
1590            371.60           375.20            0.25            0.80
1595            366.60           370.20            0.25            0.80
1600            361.60           365.20            0.50            0.85
1605            356.60           360.30            0.30            0.85
1610            351.60           355.30            0.35            0.90
1615            346.70           350.30            0.35            0.90
1620            341.70           345.30            0.35            0.90
1625            336.70           340.40            0.40            0.95
1630            331.70           335.40            0.40            0.95
1635            326.70           330.40            0.45            1.00
1640            321.80           325.40            0.45            1.00
1645            316.80           320.50            0.50            1.05
1650            311.80           315.50            0.50            0.85
1655            306.80           310.50            0.55            1.10
1660            301.90           305.60            0.55            1.10
1665            296.90           300.60            0.60            1.15
Calls                             Puts
Strike
Bid              Ask              Bid             Ask
1635            326.90           329.60            0.90            1.05
1640            321.90           324.70            0.95            1.05
1645            316.90           319.70            0.95            1.10
1650            312.00           314.70            1.00            1.15
1655            307.00           309.80            1.05            1.15
1660            302.10           304.80            1.10            1.20
1665            297.10           299.90            1.15            1.25
1670            292.20           294.90            1.15            1.30
1675            287.20           289.90            1.20            1.35
1680            282.30           285.00            1.25            1.40
1685            277.30           280.10            1.30            1.45
1690            272.40           275.10            1.35            1.50
1695            267.40           270.20            1.40            1.55
1700            262.50           265.20            1.45            1.60
1705            257.50           260.30            1.50            1.70
1710            252.60           255.30            1.60            1.75
1715            247.70           250.40            1.65            1.80
1720            242.70           245.50            1.70            1.90
1725            237.80           240.60            1.75            1.95
1730            232.90           235.60            1.85            2.00
1735            228.00           230.70            1.90            2.10
1740            223.40           225.30            2.00            2.20
1745            218.50           220.40            2.10            2.25
1750            213.60           215.50            2.20            2.35
1755            208.70           210.60            2.30            2.45
1760            203.80           205.70            2.40            2.55
1765            198.90           200.80            2.50            2.65
1770            194.00           195.90            2.65            2.80
1775            189.20           191.10            2.75            2.90
1780            184.30           185.80            2.90            3.10
1785            179.40           180.90            3.00            3.20
1790            174.60           176.10            3.10            3.40
1795            169.70           171.20            3.30            3.60
1800            164.90           166.40            3.50            3.70
1805            160.10           161.60            3.70            3.90
1810            155.30           156.70            3.80            4.10
1815            150.50           152.00            4.10            4.30
1820            145.70           147.20            4.30            4.50
1825            140.90           142.40            4.50            4.80
1830            136.20           137.70            4.80            5.00
1835            131.50           132.90            5.00            5.30
1840            126.80           128.20            5.30            5.60
1845            122.10           123.50            5.60            5.90
1850            117.40           118.80            5.90            6.20
1855            112.80           114.20            6.30            6.60
1860            108.20           109.60            6.60            6.90
1865            103.60           105.00            7.00            7.30
1870            99.00            100.40            7.50            7.80
Vyčerpáno z  Vyčerpáno z
Číslo  projektu:                               Částka podle  Vyčerpáno (€) konkr. položky celkových
smlouvy (v €)                  (%)      nákladů (v %)
Finanční  příspěvek   žadatele  (kofinancování):
0            0   #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
Přidělený  příspěvek   od NROS    v této žádosti  (požadovaný    grant):
0            0   #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
Příspěvek(y)   z jiných evropských    institucí
nebo  členských   států  EU:
Název organizace:
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
Příspěvek   od jiných  organizací:
Okolnosti:
Název organizace:
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
CELKEM     PŘÍSPĚVKŮ:                                                                      0 €          0 €
Přímé výnosy (příjmy) z projektu:
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
Celkový    součet   ( = celkové způsobilé náklady
projektu, tj. kapitola 9 v předchozím listu):                                              0 €          0 €   #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
CLASS  (DRUG)   [Neuromodulator    Effected]    1/2 LIFE                       Next  Day  Sleepiness   Next  Day  Effects On           Toxicity And/Or
[Clinical Trials]       Performance   & Driving  Tests  Significant Side Effects
Antidepressants                                 10–20  HR.                     Significant             Significant With                Anticholinergic,
- tricyclics (amitriptyline etc.)                                                                      Minimal  Study                  Respiratory  suppression
[serotonin]                                                                                                                          in overdose
- Atypicals                                     traza- done  (8 h)             Significant             Significant With                Respiratory  Suppression
(trazadone, mirtazapine)                        mirtaza-pin  20–40  HR.                                Minimal  Study                  In Overdose
[serotonin]
H1  antihistamine                               2–12  HR.                      Significant             Significant -                   Confusion   [Black Boxed
Diphinhydramine,                                                                                       Multiple studies                For The  Elderly]
hydroxyzine,  triprolidine)
[histamine]
Antipsychotic                                   6–8 HR.                        Significant             Significant with                Potentially persistent
- Olanzapine                                                                                           minimal  study                  extra-pyramidal
[histamine]                                                                                                                            Side effects
- Doxepin                                       1/2–15  h. (dose based)        Significant             Significant With                Potentially persistent
[histamine, orexin]                             active metabolite                                      Minimal  Study                  extrapyramidal
Side effects
Gaba  agonists                                  7–10  HR.                      Significant             Significant                     Disinhibition
- medium   ½  life benzodiazepi-nes                                                                    Multiple studies
(estalolam, clonazepam,   temezepam,   etc.)
[GABA]
- Long  ½ life benzodiazepi-  nes               Up  To 11 Days                 Significant             Significant                     Disinhibition
(flurezepam,  diazepam,  etc.)                                                                         Multiple studies                Falls in the elderly
[GABA]
Orexin  antagonists                             10–22  HR.                     Significant             Significant                     Unknown
(suvorexant)                                                                                                                           New   agent
[orexin]
Anxiety  Prior to   Anxiety During      Change      Calming    Clear                                      Symptoms     During    Side    Other Prescription
Patients      Procedure          Procedure        in Anxiety    Effect    Mind     Symptoms    Prior to Procedure         Procedure        Effects      Anxiolytic
D             10                  1               -9         Yes       Yes       Dry Mouth  1, Tachycardia 1,        Numbness   1        No             No
Short Breath 1, Headache   1
Dry Mouth  1, Nausea  1,
E              7                  3               -4         Yes       Yes                                                               No         Lorazepam
Trembling  1
Tachycardia  1, Headache  1,
F              4                  1               -3         Yes       Yes               Trembling  1                                    No             No
G              8                  6               -2         Yes       Yes       Dry Mouth  1, Tachycardia  1        Numbness   1        No         Alprazolam
Dry Mouth  3,
Dry Mouth  3, Tachycardia 1,       Tachycardia  2,
H              7                  5               -2         Yes       Yes    Sweating  2, Nausea  2, Numbness   Sweating  1, Nausea     No         Alprazolam
3, Short Breath 2, Headache  2,    1, Numbness   2,
Trembling  1               Short Breath 1,
Headache   1
Dry Mouth  1, Nausea  1,
I              2                  0               -2         Yes       Yes        Numbness   1, Headache   1                             No         Duloxetine
J              5                  6               1          Yes       Yes       Dry Mouth  1, Tachycardia 1,        Dry Mouth  2,       No          Sertraline
Sweating 1, Numbness   1         Tachycardia  1
Dry Mouth  2,
Dry Mouth  3, Tachycardia 1,       Tachycardia  2,
K              6                  7               1           No       Yes                Nausea  1,                  Nausea  1,         No             No
Short Breath 1, Trembling  2       Short Breath 1,
Trembling  1
Ave  or %        6.13               3.63             -2.50      87.5%     100%                                                               0%           62.5%
Anxiety on a 10-point scale (10 is severe); Symptoms on a 0 – 3 point scale (0 none, 1 mild, 2 moderate, 3 severe). Patients D, E, F, G, H, and I were responders; Patients
J and K were  non-responders.
Articles cited Odds  ratio
Category                (%)         (OA/sub)     (cid:7)2 P (cid:4) (cid:7)2
All journals            74.1          0.96      0.11     0.74
Medical                 85.2          1.21      0.35     0.55
Life sciences           74.5          0.87      1.10     0.29
Multidisciplinary
sciences              97.5          1.26      0.05     0.83
Social sciences         35.6          1.36      1.19     0.28
Humanities              10.0          0.43      0.96     0.33
Exposure                Measured      Valid?    Reason  (Willett)                                Reason  (Margetts  / Nelson)
in
Copper  : Superoxide     Erythrocy    Yes     Among   four men  fed a copper deficient diet for
dismutase                te                   4 months, erythrocyte S.O.D  declined for all 4.
Copper  repletion restored S.O.D levels
Copper                   Plasma/se    No      No  (p 211): large number of lifestyle
rum                  factors/pathologic conditions probably alter
blood copper  concentrations (smoking,
infections)
Copper                   Hair         No      No  evidence (212) and data suggests influenced    No. Copper-dependent   enzyme  superoxide
by external contamination                          dismutase in erythrocytes and copper-protein
complex  caeroplasmin  in serum have been
shown  to be associated with copper intake, but
these markers may  be influenced by nondietary
factors (p 193)
Selenium                 Blood        Yes     Yes. Erythrocyte is probably superior to serum     Yes (p 193). Relationship between  selenium
compone              as                                                 intake and biomarkers is reasonably good.
nts                  measure  of long-term intake (p 206). Lower        Urine: reasonable marker, plasma  reflects intake
Toenails             influence of environment  in countries where       provided that the range of variation is large. Red
wearing  shoes is norm (toenails). Selenium        cell and glutathione perioxidase are
status is reduced by smoking, also in older        markers of longer-term intakes. Hair and
persons (p 207); Relationship of selenium with     toenails are alternative possibilities, although
disease may  be modified by other antioxidants     contamination  of hair samples with shampoo
(vit E and C)                                      must be controlled for
Glutathione              Plasma       No      Is poor measure of selenium  intake among
perioxidase              Serum                persons with moderate  and high exposure  (p
Erythrocy            206)
tes
Blood
Material                 Density,  Ibift®                 Thermal                 Thermal   Resistance   (R),            Permeance,
(kg/m)                     Conductivity                           inch,                       Porms®
(k), BTU  = inwhrs ft?  «oF         °F  ft2* hr/BTU  «in.
‘Granular  Fills
Vermiculite              4.0- 6.0 (64 - 96)                   O44                             227                              ta
Perfite               2.0 - 11,0 (32 - 176)             O.27  - 0.42                      24-37                              na
Rigid Boards
Extruded   Polystyrene         4:8 - 3.5 (20-56)                    0.20                             5.0                            0.83
Expanded   Polystyrene         1.0 - 2,0 (16 - 32}              0.29  - 0.26                     3.85 - 4.35                     050-017
Polyisocyanurate                  2.0 (32)                        O44                             7.04                             nla
(with facers)
Foamed-in-place
Polyurethane                    16-25                       016-018                          6.25 - 6.56                         na
Polyicynene                      nia                           0.25                              4                              na
Foamed    Minerals               2.25  (36)                       0.26                             3.9                             nia
Amine-plast                    0.8 (13)                        0.20                             49                              nia
Name                          Country                            Affiliation
Zeba  AZIZ                    Pakistan                           Hameed   Latif Hospital
Jolanta BILIŃSKA              Poland                             Jonscher  Hospital, Lodz, Poland
Christopher BOOTH             Canada                             Kingston  Health Sciences Centre
María Elena CABRERA                                              Department   of Internal Medicine East
Chile
CONTRERAS                                                        University of Chile
Oncology   Institute of Southern
Franco CAVALLI                Switzerland
Switzerland, Hospital San Giovanni
Noreen  CHAN                  Singapore                          National University Cancer Institute
Elisabeth G.E. DE VRIES       Netherlands                        University of Groningen
Herbert  Irving Pavilion, Columbia
Tito A. FOJO                  United States of America
University, Department  of Surgery
James  LOVE                   United States of America           Knowledge   Ecology  International
Keymanthri  MOODLEY           South Africa                       Centre  for Medical Ethics and Law
Faculty of Medicine, Chiang  Mai
Sumitra THONGPRASERT          Thailand                           University
National Center  for Radiotherapy, Korle
Verna  Dnk VANDERPUYE         Ghana
Bu Teaching  Hospital
Approach           Description                  Method   of price determination
Tendering  and     Set prices based  on the     1.  Identify and specify requirements  for the supply of medicines, including: volume;
negotiation        best offer received from         timing and  frequency  of supply; quality assurance; and cap expenditure
tenderers                    2.  Request  for tender from  the market (open  tender) or preselected/qualified
suppliers (closed tender)
3.  Select the winning tender, and  price by extension
Profit control     Set and  enforce levels of   1.  Determine   the points along the supply chain at which  price control can be
mark-ups   in the supply         enforced:  wholesalers, pharmacies,  dispensing doctors, and  dispensaries
and  distribution chain      2.  Determine/negotiate   the structure and magnitude   of mark-ups  (e.g. fixed or
regressive percentage)
3.  Enforce  and monitor  mark-ups
Set limits on the level      1.  Determine/negotiate   levels of price and frequency of price increase acceptable  to
and  frequency  of price         the health system
increase                     2.  Set threshold levels
3.  Enforce  and monitor  price increase
Other              •  Setting ceiling price     For MEA
approaches            (only)                    1.  Negotiate  and  specify conditions directly relating to finance (price ± volume) or
•  Using  Managed   Entry        performance   (clinical outputs or pre-agreed health outcomes)
Agreement    (MEA)
2.  Implement   MEAs  according  to agreed  terms and  conditions
Date         Time            Blood Pressure            Pulse Rate                             Comments
25/1/2005   08:30am       120/70                     75                  Normal
26/1/2005   10:30am       155/82                     85                  High  Blood   Presssure
27/1/2005   7:00pm        90/60                      58                  Low   Blood   Pressure
Model  Letter          Description                          Supporting  Theory/Discussion
P – Step 1     Preparation for learning    (Gulicheva, Lisin, Osipova, & Khabdullin 2017; Paul et al., 1997;
management              Thaiposri & Wannapiroon,  2015; Wichadee, 2014; Schroeder,
Minocha, &  Schneider, 2010).
U – Step 2        Understanding and        (Bruner, 1976; Dewey, 1910; Halpern, 1993; Hove, 2011; McPeck,
practice                            1981; University of Leeds, n/d).
C – Step 3      Cooperative  solutions             (Johnson &  Johnson, 1994; Vijayaratnam, 2009)
S – Step 4      Sharing new knowledge     (Innis, 2015; Leesa-nguansuk, 2015; Mandernach, 2006; University
of Leeds, n/d).
C – Step 5         Creation of new             (Dewey, 1910; Heick, 2014; Innis, 2015, Sternberg, 1997).
knowledge
Level of action required          Time  frame for action*                    Proposed  actions taken by:
Inter-                                                                    Health care
Option                                         Local   Regional   National  national   Short   Medium      Long    Government^     Payer^    Industry   professional Patients
(a) Strengthening   pricing policies
(a.1) Improving the consistency of policies                                                                                              
across health and other sectors
(a.2) Designing differential pricing sensitive                                                                                   
to health systems’ ability to pay
(a.3) Enhancing health system ability to
review and adjust prices, and to withdraw
                                                                                            
funding for superseded  or less cost-
effective medicines if required
(a.4) Enforcing price caps for cancer
medicines, with or without progressive                                                                                            
reduction of prices over time
(a.5) Creating competition among
substitutable cancer medicines                                                                                                                                  
(b) Improving   efficiency
(b.1) Prioritizing the selection of medicines                                                                                                         
with high(er) clinical value
(b.2) Considering the costs of model of
care as part of the pricing approach                                                                                              
(b.3) Considering managed   entry
agreements  for expenditure control only in                                                                                       
specific cases
(b.4) Avoiding the use or establishment of
fund earmarked  for the provision of                                                                                              
cancer medicines
Name                           Country            Affiliation
Kamaruzaman    BIN SALEH       Malaysia           Ministry of Health (Kementerian Kesihatan  Malaysia)
Moses  CHISALE                 Malawi             Central Medical Stores Trust
Avram  DENBURG                 Canada             University of Toronto and The  Hospital for Sick Children
(SickKids)
Gihan  Hamdy   EL-SISI         Egypt              The Ministry of Health and Population
Saad  JADDOUA                  Jordan             King Hussein Cancer  Center
Republic of
Jinsoo LEE                                        Korea National Cancer  Center
Korea
Miriam  NAARENDORP             Suriname           Ministry of Health (Ministerie van Volksgezondheid)
Sakthivel SELVERAJ             India              Public Health Foundation  of India
Netnapis  SUCHONWANICH         Thailand           National Health Security Office
The United
Richard SULLIVAN                                  Institute of Cancer Policy, Kings College London
Kingdom
Fatima SULEMAN                 South Africa       University of KwaZulu-Natal
Fola TAYO                      Nigeria            Caleb University
Gesundheit  Österreich GmbH
Sabine VOGLER                  Austria            WHO   Collaborating Centre  for Pharmaceutical Pricing
and Reimbursement    Policies
Andrew  WILSON                 Australia          Australian Government   Department  of Health
Nutrient               Biologic       Val./reproduc     Coef      Details
tissue
Retinol                Plasma         Validity          0.17      Borderline Correlation between  pre-formed  vit A intake and plasma retinol.
However   plasma  retinol is a recognized marker of vit A nutritional status for
undernourished  populations
Beta-carotene                                           0.51      Correlation between  plasma  beta-carotene level (averaged from 2 samples
taken 1 week  apart) and a 7-day diet record estimate of beta-carotene in 98 non-
smoking  women   (Willett, p 194).
0.38      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of carotene and plasma
betacarotene in 902 adult females. In males (n=880): r=0.20 (Margetts, table
7.9a).
Plasma         Reproducibility   0.45      Correlation for carotene (80%  beta-carotene, 20% alpha-carotene) between  two
measurements   taken 6 years apart (Willett, p 194).
Beta-cryptoxanthin     Plasma         Validity          0.49      Correlation between  plasma  beta-carotene level (averaged from 2
Lutein+zeaxanthin      Plasma         Validity          0.31      samples  taken 1 week apart) and a 7-day diet record estimate of beta carotene
Lycopene               Plasma         Validity          0.50      in 98 non-smoking   women  (Willett, p 194)
Alpha-carotene         Plasma         Validity          0.58
Alpha-carotene         Plasma         Validity          0.43      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of carotene and plasma
alphacarotene  in 902 adult females. In males (n=880): r=0.41 (Margetts, table
7.9a).
Carotenoids            Plasma         Reproducibility   !080      Within-person  variability of plasma levels over 1 week (Willett, p 194).
Vitamin  E             Plasma         Validity          0.53      Lipid-adjusted alpha-tocopherol  measurements  and  estimated intake (incl.
supplements).  After excluding supplement  users: r=0.35 (Willett, p 196)
Plasma         Reproducibility   0.65      Unadjusted  repeated measures  over a 6-year period (p 188). Adjusting for
serum  cholesterol reduced correlation to r=0.46 (p 188). Also r=0.65 was found
over a 4-year period in 105 adults in Finland (Willett, p 196).
Plasma         Validity          0.20      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of vit E and plasma vit E in
880  adult males. In females (n=906): r=0.14 (Margetts, table 7.9a)
Criteria                                  Measures                                             Sources
Overall  clinical benefit              Efficacy – health impact based  on mortality,     Clinical Guidance Report  from relevant Clinical
morbidity, and quality of life. Assessment of     Guidance  Panel.
direction of effect, magnitude, and level of      Systemic literature reviews and registered
uncertainty                                       clinician input.
Safety – frequency  and severity of adverse
events
Burden  of Illness – incidence of disease in
population
Need  – current availability of effective
alternatives
Alignment   with patient  values       Measures  of social value (e.g., social desire for Patient group input
cures for cancer)
Cost-effectiveness                     Net efficacy compared   to other drugs —          Economic  Guidance   Report from  Economic
costs, cost per QALY  or event avoided,           Guidance  Panel, review of pharmacoeconomic
uncertainty about net health benefits             models
Feasibility of adoption                Overall assessment  of budget impact              Provincial advisory group input and economic
guidance reports
Put Strike                              Bid                                  Ask                               Include?
1345                                  0                                   0.15
Not considered following two zero
1350                                 0.05                                0.15                                 bids
1355                                 0.05                                0.35
1360                                  0                                   0.35                                 No
1365                                  0                                   0.35                                 No
1370                                 0.05                                 0.35                                 Yes
1375                                 0.1                                  0.15                                 Yes
1380                                 0.1                                  0.2                                  Yes
Call Strike                             Bid                                  Ask                               Include?
2095                                 0.05                                 0.35                                 Yes
2100                                 0.05                                 0.15                                 Yes
2120                                  0                                   0.15                                 No
2125                                 0.05                                 0.15                                 Yes
2150                                  0                                   0.1                                  No
2175                                  0                                   0.05                                 No
2200                                  0                                   0.05
Not considered following two zero
2225                                 0.05                                 0.1
bids
2250                                  0                                   0.05
Near  term  Strike          Option  Type            Midpoint   Price                 Next  term Strike           Option  Type            Midpoint   Price
1370                      Put                       0.2                             1275                       Put                     0.075
1375                      Put                     0.125                             1325                       Put                      0.15
1380                      Put                      0.15                             1350                       Put                      0.15
.                        .                         .                                 .                        .                         .
1950                      Put                     18.25                             1950                       Put                     21.60
1955                      Put                     19.75                             1955                       Put                     23.20
1960                Put/Call Average               22.775                            1960               Put/Call  Average               26.10
1965                      Call                    21.05                             1965                       Call                    24.15
1970                      Call                     18.1                             1970                       Call                    21.10
.                        .                         .                                 .                        .                         .
2095                      Call                      0.2                             2125                       Call                      0.1
2100                      Call                      0.1                             2150                       Call                      0.1
2125                      Call                      0.1                             2200                       Call                     0.08
Plasmodium    species
P. berghei             P. yoelii              P. chabaudi           P. vinckei
First isolated    1948  (Zaire)          1965  (CAR)            1965 (CAR)            1952  (Zaire)
Cycle             asynchronous           asynchronous           synchronous           synchronous
Periodicity       22-25  hours           22-25  hours           24 hours              24  hours
Host cells        reticulocytes          reticulocytes          Mature  RBC           Mature  RBC
Mz  per schizont  12  to 18              12 to 18               6 to 8                6 to 12
Primary  use      Drug  screening        Liver stage biology    Mechanisms   of drug
and vaccine  studies   resistance &
antigenic variation
Non-benzodiazepines
cyclopyrrolones
eszopiclone                1, 2, 3 mg tablets    2-3 mg  hs                                        Primarily  used for sleep-onset and main-
1 mg hs in elderly or debilitated; max 2 mg        tenance  insomnia;
1 mg hs in severe hepatic impairment;  max        Intermediate-acting;
2 mg                                              No  short-term usage  restriction
imidazopyridines
zolpidem                   5, 10 mg  tablets     10 mg  hs; max 10 mg                              Primarily  used for sleep-onset insomnia
5 mg hs in elderly, debilitated, or hepatic       Short-to intermediate-acting
impairment
zolpidem  (controlled      6.25, 12.5 mg         12.5 mg  hs                                       Primarily  used for sleep-onset and main-
release)                   tablets               6.25 mg  hs in elderly, debilitated, or hepatic    tenance  insomnia;
impairment                                        Controlled  release; swallow  whole,  not
divided, crushed  or chewed
pyrazolopyrimidines
zaleplon                   5, 10 mg  capsules    10 mg  hs; max 20 mg                              Primarily  used for sleep onset insomnia
5 mg hs in elderly, debilitated, mild to          Maintenance   insomnia  as long as 4 hours
moderate  hepatic impairment,  or concomitant      is available for further sleep
cimetidine                                        Short-acting
Benzodiazepines
estazolam                    1, 2 mg  tablets      1-2 mg  hs
0.5 mg hs in elderly or debilitated               Short- to intermediate-acting
temazepam                    7.5, 15, 30 mg        15-30 mg  hs
capsules              7.5 mg hs in elderly or debilitated               Short- to intermediate-acting
triazolam                    0.125, 0.25 mg        0.25 mg  hs; max 0.5 mg
tablets               0.125 mg  hs in elderly or debilitated; max       Short-acting
0.25 mg
flurazepam                   15, 30 mg  capsules   15-30 mg  hs                                      Long-acting
15 mg  hs in elderly or debilitated               Risk  of residual daytime drowsiness
Melatonin   Receptor  Agonists  (Non-Scheduled)
ramelteon                    8 mg  tablet          8 mg hs                                           Primarily  used for sleep-onset insomnia
  Short-acting
  No  short-term usage  restriction
Region                             Resistance  reported1         Comments
CQ        SP        MQ        Others
PLASMODIUM     FALCIPARUM    INFECTIONS
Central America (Mexico,           N         N         N                   North-west  of Panama  Canal  only
Belize, Guatemala, Honduras,
El Salvador, Nicaragua,
Costa Rica, NW Panama)
Caribbean  (Haiti and              N         N         N
Dominican  Republic  only)
South America  (SE Panama,         Y         Y         Y         QN        Resistance  to MQ and QN, although  reported, is considered to occur infrequently
Columbia, Venezuela,
Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, Bolivia, )
Western  Africa                    Y         Y         Y                   Incidence  of resistance to CQ variable, but very common in most areas
Eastern Africa                     Y         Y         N                   Incidence  o f resistance to SP highly variable, with some reports of focally high incidence,
but generally uncommon
Southern  Africa                   Y         Y         N                   Resistance  to SP, although reported, is considered to be generally uncommon
Indian Subcontinent                Y         N         N
South-East Asia and Oceania        Y         Y         Y         HAL,      Border  areas of Thailand, Cambodia, and Myanmar   highest risk for multiple-drug-resistant
QN        infections; in other areas, incidence of resistance to SP and MQ highly variable and absent
in many  areas
East Asia (China)                  Y         Y         ?                   Resistance  greatest problem in southern China
Exposure                Measured      Valid?     Reason  (Willett)                                Reason   (Margetts  / Nelson)
in
Vit D: D25  (OH)D         Plasma      Yes      Yes (P 198/199)  NB.  Seasonal variation exists,   Both  can be used to measure  vit D status, but
Serum                especially in elderly populations, decreasing in   the higher plasma  concentration and  lesser
winter and rising during summer  (p 198)           metabolic  control of d25 makes  this, by far, the
Sunshine  exposure is most important               better option (p 198).
determinant; level is better marker of dietary
intake in subjects with low sun exposure
Vit D: 1.25 (OH)2D                    No       No. Influenced  by calcium and  phosphate levels
and parathyroid hormone   (p 199).
Vit D: Alkaline           Serum       No       No. Is indirect measure of vit D status and is     No  info
phosphatase  activity                          susceptible to other disease processes (p 199)
Vit C                     Plasma      Yes      Yes (p 200). Leukocyte  may  be preferred for      Yes  (p 209), vit C exhibits the strongest and
Leukocyt             long-term intake and plasma  and serum  reflects   most   significant correlation between intake and
e                    more  recent intake (p 201)                        biochemical  indices. Known   confounders  are:
Serum                                                                   gender,  smoking
Vitamin  B6               Plasma      Yes      Yes response  to supplementation  shows            Recent  studies show  that there is unlikely to be
response in PLP. PLP  better measure  of short     a strong correlation between  dietary intake and
term rather than long term                         plasma  pyridoxal  phosphate levels (PPL)
PLP  and 4 Pyridoxic      Urinary     Yes      Urinary B6  may  be more  responsive to recent
acid                                           dietary intake than plasma PLP.  Random
samples  of urine 4 –pyridoxic acid correlate
well with 24 hour collections
Folacin (folate)          Serum       Yes      Yes good  correlation with dietary folate in both  Used  for assessing folate status Table 7.11p
Erythrocy            serum  and erythrocytes
te
Magnesium                 Serum       Yes      Yes stronger correlation with supplement  users
than with dietary Mg
Iron                      Serum       No       No, short-term variability is very high (p 208).
Hair/nails  No       No, remains  to be determined
Iron: Ferritin            Serum       Yes      Meat  intake predicts serum ferritin level (p 208) No  marker  of iron intake is satisfactory (p. 192)
Cancer      Stage I,  Stage II, Stage III, Stage  IV,  Stage I,  Stage II, Stage  III, Stage IV,
$         $         $          $           %         %         %           %
Breast      29,377    40,989    57,155     67,038      52        32        10          6
Prostate    ---       26,505    30,541     44,591      ---       84        8           8
Lung        60,038    73,509    84,726     93,166      22        4         26          48
Colorectal  49,189    66,613    83,980     108,599     25        29        26          20
Cancer      Stage I,  Stage II, Stage III, Stage  IV,  Stage I,  Stage II, Stage  III, Stage IV,
$         $         $          $           %         %         %           %
Breast      64,889    70,931    71,555     70,057      27        32        19          22
Prostate    ---       66,160    82,621     71,704      ---       66        5           29
Lung        82,621    78,091    74,186     65,907      13        3         27          57
Colorectal  83,135    84,098    86,789     79,552      14        21        26          39
Cancer     Average  Costs, $  Average  Cost-Savings, $    Average  Cost-Savings, %
Breast     38130              4330                        11.35
Prostate   28275              1770                        6.26
Lung       82897              20787                       25.08
Colorectal 75170              16623                       22.11
Stage           Average  Costs, $    Incidence  rate, %
0               984                  NA
I               4259                 52.1
II              12566                32.6
III             39761                9.7
IV              42303                5.6
IV (recurrent)  39281                NA
Jurisdiction     Structure           Level               Jurisdiction           Structure         Level
Russian
Australia        Credit              40%  to 45%         Federation             Deduction        4%  to 150%
Brazil           Deduction           160%  to 180%       Singapore              Deduction        50%  to 300%
Canada           Credit              15% to 35%          South  Africa          Deduction        150%
China            Deduction           150%                Republic  of Korea     Credit           7%  to 50%
India            Deduction           100%  to 200%       Turkey                 Deduction        50%  to 100%
Japan            Credit              5%  to 30%          United  Kingdom        Credit/          11% to 225%
deduction
Netherlands      Deduction           5%  to 160%         United  States         Credit           14%  to 20%
If you
are           Free     Reduced      Federal       Foster
receiving   Lunches    Lunches     Assistance     Care
→                                               payments
You  may
qualify
for           50%        50%          25%          50%
up to a     discount    discount    discount     discount
→  50
TABLE   1
Typical  Flue Liner Dimensions
Nominal         Inside        Equivalent       Minimum
Size      Perimeter,  P,   Diameter,  B       Area, Ap
in.           ft               in.             sq ft
8x12            27               E*              O42
12 "12          3.0               10             0.56
12%  16         3.6               12             O78
16%  16         42                i4             1.08
16% 20          48                16             1.38
20) « 20        3.3               18             1.78
20 « 24         59               20              246
24 424          BS               22              264
Steel
Finished  Fireplace  Opening                 Rough  Brick Work*
Angle*
8     LH     D      E      F               HERx    1      J      K        N
2a     24     16     an     14     18     B34             Ea      19     10     ADE
26     24     16     13     id     18     834             21     21      i      ACG
28     24     16     15     14     18     aa              21     21      12     Ade
16     7      14     23     8 al4    £88    21     24      13     Ade
32     BRS    16     19     14     23     834             21     od      id     And?
36            16     33     14     23     a3              21     27      16     Ad
SRE    16     2F     14     8      8 al4    BS&    21     29      ao     Ada
16     29     16     e4     834             21     32             B54
18     33     16            a3              2g     ar     8       B-60
a?     20     a      16     S888    13      EXRe@  25     45     Hasse   B66
22     42     16             13             27     45             B72
40     22     42     18             13             ar     45             B72
22     54     18             13             af     56             oa
Drug  Name  (Brand Name)                    Biomarker(s)                    Indication(s)
Adjuvant Therapy
1       Cevimeline (Evoxac®)                        CYP2D6                          Dry mouth
2       Rasburicase (Elitek®)                       G6PD;  CYB5R1-4                 Hyperuricemia, hemolysis, and
methemoglobinemia
3       Sodium  phenylacetate and sodium            NAGS;  CPS1; ASS1; OTC; ASL;    Urea cycle disorders
benzoate  (Ammonul®)                        ARG
4       Sodium  phenylbutyrate (Buphenyl®)          CPS1; OTC;  ASS1                Urea cycle disorders
Analgesia & Anesthesiology
5       Celecoxib (Celebrex®)                       CYP2C9                          Pain
6       Codeine                                     CYP2D6;  CYP3A4;   UGT2B7       Pain
7       Mivacurium  (Mivacron®)                     Cholinesterase gene             Anesthesia adjunct
8       Tramadol (Ultram®)                          CYP2D6                          Pain
Cardiovascular
9       Carvedilol (Coreg®)                         CYP2D6                          Cardiovascular disease
10      Clopidogrel (Plavix®)                       CYP2C19                         Antiplatelet response
11      Isosorbide and hydralazine (Bidil®)         NAT1; NAT2                      Heart failure
12      Lomitapide                                  LDLR                            Familial hypercholesterolemia
13      Metoprolol (Toprol-XL®)                     CYP2D6                          Cardiovascular disease
14      Mipomersen   sodium (Kynamro®)              LDLR                            Familial hypercholesterolemia
15      Pravastatin                                 LDR                             High cholesterol
16      Propafenone  (Rythmol  SR®)                 CYP2D6                          Cardiac arrhythmia
17      Quinidine                                   CYP2D6                          Cardiac arrhythmia, malaria
18      Simvastatin (Zocor®)                        SLCO1B1                         High cholesterol
19      Warfarin (Coumadin®)                        CYP2C9;  VKORC1;   protein C    Anti-blood clotting, stroke
or S deficiencies               prevention
Endocrinology
20      Glyburide                                   G6PD                            Diabetes
21      Chlorpropamide                              G6PD                            Diabetes
22      Glimepiride                                 G6PD;  CYP2C9                   Diabetes
23      Glipizide                                   G6PD                            Diabetes
Meal Type                        0-5 Months                                    6-11 Months
Breakfast             4-6 fl oz Breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant 6-8 fl oz Breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant
formula2                                       formula2 , and
0-4 tbsp infant cereal2,3, meat, fish,
poultry, whole eggs, cooked  dry beans or
peas; or
0-2 oz cheese; or
0-4 oz cottage cheese; or
0-4 oz yogurt4; or a combination5 , and
0-2 tbsp vegetable, fruit, or both5,6
Lunch  or Supper      4-6 fl oz Breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant 6-8 fl oz Breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant
formula2                                       formula2 , and
0-4 tbsp infant cereal2,3, meat, fish,
poultry, whole eggs, cooked  dry beans or
peas; or
0-2 oz cheese; or
0-4 oz cottage cheese; or
0-4 oz yogurt4; or a combination5 , and
0-2 tbsp vegetable, fruit, or both5,6
Snack                 4-6 fl oz Breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant 2-4 fl oz breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant
formula2                                       formula2; and
0-1/2 slice bread3,7; or
0-2 crackers3,7; or
0-4 tbsp infant cereal2,3,7 or ready-to-eat
breakfast cereal3,5,7,8; and
0-2 tbsp vegetable, fruit, or a combination
of both5,6
Type  of data      Problem                         Assumptions
Dose-response      Serving size is not quantified  Use  serving size recommended    in SLR  1
data               or ranges are missing, but      for consistency  in the analyses (Appendix
group descriptions are given    4)
Standard error missing          The  p value (either exact or the upper
bound)  is used to estimate the standard
error
Quantile-based     Numbers   of controls (or the   Group  sizes are assumed  to be
data               denominator  in cohort          approximately   equal
studies) are missing
Odds  ratio is missing          Unadjusted   odds ratios are calculated by
using numbers   of cases and controls in
each  group
Confidence  interval is         Standard  error and hence  confidence
missing                         interval were calculated from  raw
numbers   (although doing  so may  result in
a somewhat   smaller standard  error than
would  be obtained  in an adjusted
analysis)
Group  mean  or median  are     The  mid-point  of closed-ended
missing                         categories will be assigned  as
exposure  to the group.  The median
exposure  for open ended-categories
will be estimated by  using the
method   of Chene  and Thompson11
assuming   a normal or lognormal
distribution. However,  if the
number   of groups is too small to
calculate a distribution, the
midpoint  will be assigned to the
lowest  category. The upper  bound
plus the mid-range  of the precedent
category  will be assigned to the
highest category.
Category  data     Numbers   of cases and          These  numbers   may  be inferred
controls (or the denominator    based  on numbers  of cases and  the
in cohort studies) is missing   reported odds  ratio (proportions will
be correct unless adjustment  for
confounding   factors considerably
alter the crude odds ratios)
QTc              Arsenic trioxide             ECG                 Replete     electrolytes
Prolongation                                                      (K/Mg)
Histone         deacetylase
inhibitors                                       Serial ECG  monitoring
Small molecule  TKIs                             Discontinue  other QTc
prolonging       drugs,
where possible
Discontinue
chemotherapy   agent, if
significant   risk   of
torsades
Pericardial      Busulfan                     Echocardiograph     Pericardiocentesis
Disease                                       y
Non-VSP     inhibitor small                      Pericardial window
molecule  TKIs               Cardiac  MRI
Pericardial   stripping
Cardiac  CT         (with constriction)
Colchicine     (if   no
interaction        with
chemotherapy)
NSAIDs     (if  normal
blood   pressure    and
LVEF)
NAME                               GOLDEN      RULE
TAKE    A READER'S     VIEW        Write  for your audience not for yourself.
TELL   A  STORY                    Direct your RA   but keep a clear focus in the paper and present only
results that relate to it.
BE  YOURSELF                       Write  like you speak and then revise and polish.
MAKE    IT  SIMPLE                 Use  simple(st) examples to explain complex  methodology.
Use  concrete words  and strong verbs, avoid noun clusters (more
MAKE    IT  CONCRETE
than three words), abstract and ambiguous  words.
Avoid  redundancy,  repetition and over-explanation of familiar
MAKE    IT  SHORT                  techniques  and terminology.
TAKE    RESPONSIBILITY             Make   a clear distinction between your work and that of others.
MAKE    STRONG
STATEMENTS                         "We  concluded    " instead of "It may be concluded   "
BE  SELF-CRITICAL                  Consider  uncertainty of conclusions and their implications and
acknowledge   the work  of others.
Chloroquine       Options†             Sites of action
resistance*
Yes               Atovaquone-          Blood stage (suppressive) and liver
proguanil or         stage (causal)‡
doxycycline or       Blood stage (suppressive)
mefloquine§  or      Blood stage (suppressive)
primaquine||         Liver stage (causal) and blood stage¶
No                Chloroquine or       Blood stage (suppressive)
atovaquone-          Blood stage (suppressive) and liver
proguanil or         stage (causal)
doxycycline or       Blood stage (suppressive)
mefloquine  or       Blood stage (suppressive)
primaquine¶          Liver stage (causal) and blood stage**
Publisher and journal                                                         Open  access (n)  Control articles (n) Open  access (%)
American   Physiological Society (Jan.–Apr.  2007),  delayed access: 12 mo
American  Journal of Physiology—Regulatory, Integrative and Comparative
Physiology                                                                       34                 161                17
American  Journal of Physiology—Endocrinology and  Metabolism                      21                 126                14
American  Journal of Physiology—Renal  Physiology                                  18                 122                13
American  Journal of Physiology-Heart and Circulatory Physiology                   32                 201                14
American  Journal of Physiology—Lung  Cellular and Molecular Physiology            14                  95                13
American  Journal of Physiology—Gastrointestinal and Liver Physiology              22                 112                16
American  Journal of Physiology—Cell Physiology                                    36                 119                23
Journal of Applied Physiology                                                      27                 174                13
Journal of Neurophysiology                                                         39                 239                14
Physiological Reviews                                                               2                  14                13
Physiology                                                                          2                   9                18
Total                                                                             247               1372                 15
American   Heart  Association (June–Sep.   2007), delayed  access: 12 mo
Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology                                 20                  85                19
Circulation                                                                        20                  76                21
Circulation Research                                                               19                  41                32
Hypertension                                                                       20                  75                21
Stroke                                                                             22                 110                17
Total                                                                             101                 387                21
Duke  University  Press (June–Dec.  2007),  delayed  access: never
Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law                                          7                  10                41
American  Speech                                                                    3                   5                38
Neuro-Oncology                                                                     12                  15                44
Public Culture                                                                      6                   5                55
Ethnohistory                                                                        5                   6                45
GLQ:   A Journal of Lesbian and Gay Studies                                         6                   7                46
Social Science History                                                              4                   6                40
Total                                                                              45                  54                45
SAGE   Publishers (June  2007–Feb.   2008), delayed  access: never
Comparative  Political Studies                                                     11                  17                39
Communication   Research                                                            8                  11                42
New  Media  &  Society                                                              8                  22                27
Social Studies of Science                                                           8                  17                32
American  Behavioral Scientist                                                     10                  31                24
Progress in Human   Geography                                                       8                  18                31
Administration  &  Society                                                          9                  15                38
Theory &   Psychology                                                              10                  23                30
Applied Psychological Measurement                                                   7                  13                35
Organization                                                                        8                  16                33
Total                                                                              87                 183                32
Federation  of American   Societies for Experimental   Biology (June–Oct.
2007),  delayed  access: 12 mo
FASEB   Journal                                                                    81                  84                49
Genetics  Society of America  (June–Sep.   2007), delayed  access: 6 mo
Genetics                                                                          103                 108                49
American   Association  for the Advancement    of Science (June–Nov.
2007),  delayed  access: 12 mo
Science                                                                            48                 345                12
Grand   total                                                                       712               2533                 22
Cancer      Total, # Stage   Stage    Stage    Stage   Stage   Stage    Stage  Stage   Stage   Stage   Stage  Stage   Stage   Stage   Stage   Stage
0, #    I, #     II, #    III, #  IV, #   ?, #     0, %   I, %    II, %   III, %  IV, %  ?, %    I, %    II, %   III, %  IV, %
Breast      260590   49540   96601    67953    24317   10382   11797    19.01  37.07   26.08   9.33    3.98   4.53    48.48   34.1    12.2    5.21
Colon       97947    8235    20085    23615    21597   17961   6454     8.41   20.51   24.11   22.05   18.34  6.59    24.12   28.36   25.94   21.57
Rectum      30334    2814    7536     4794     6081    4242    4867     9.28   24.84   15.8    20.05   13.98  16.04   33.27   21.16   26.84   18.73
Lung        155820   142     27008    7381     31097   69944   20248    0.09   17.33   4.74    19.96   44.89  12.99   19.94   5.45    22.96   51.65
Prostate    198043   NA      16113    135698   14194   13359   18679    NA     8.14    68.52   7.17    6.75   9.43    8.98    75.66   7.91    7.45
Exposure              Measured   in   Valid?    Reason   (Willett)                               Reason   (Margetts  / Nelson)
Retinol                  Plasma/se    Yes     Can  be measured  adequately, but limited          Main  biochemical  marker  of vit A intake is
rum                  interpretability in well-nourished population (p   serum  retinol (p 194) although in western
190).                                              countries dietary intake of this vitamin is only a
very minor  determinant of its plasma levels.
Retinol-Binding          Serum        Yes     Retinol levels are highly correlated to            May  be measure  of physiologically available
protein                                       RBP(p192).                                         form. Not  if certain disease processes exist (p
192).
Beta-carotene            Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 194) although blood levels much  more      Yes  (p 197)
responsive to supplemental  beta-carotene than
beta-carotene from  food sources (p 193)
Alpha-carotene           Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 194)                                       There  is some evidence for interaction between
Beta-cryptoxanthin                                                                               carotenoids during intestinal absorption, which
Lutein+zeaxanthin                                                                                may  complicate  relationship between intake and
Lycopene                                                                                         blood levels (p 198)
Vit E                    Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 196)                                       Plasma,  red and white blood cells. Yes, if used
NB.  Strong confounding  with serum  cholesterol   for vit E supplements. Yes, although if used for
and total lipid concentrations (p 196).            diet, associations are only moderate (p199)
C9296       Injection, ziv-aflibercept, 1 mg      J9096
C9297       Omacetaxine    mepesuccinate          J9097
C9442       Injection, belinostat, 10 mg          J9098
C9449       Injection, blinatumomab,   1 mcg      J9100
C9453       Injection, nivolumab,  1 mg           J9110
C9455       Injection, siltuximab, 10 mg          J9120
J0202       Injection, alemtuzumab                J9130
J0894       Decitabine  injection                 J9140
J9000       Doxorubicin   hcl injection           J9150
J9001       Doxorubicin   hcl liposome inj        J9151
J9002       Doxil injection                       J9155
J9010       Alemtuzumab    injection              J9160
J9015       Aldesleukin  injection                J9165
J9017       Arsenic  trioxide injection           J9170
J9019       Erwinaze  injection                   J9171
J9020       Asparaginase,   NOS                   J9178
J9025       Azacitidine injection                 J9179
J9027       Clofarabine  injection                J9181
J9031       Bcg  live intravesical vac            J9185
J9032       Injection, belinostat, 10 mg          J9190
J9033       Bendamustine    injection             J9200
J9035       Bevacizumab    injection              J9201
J9039       Injection, blinatumomab,   1          J9202
microgram
J9040       Bleomycin   sulfate injection         J9206
J9041       Bortezomib   injection                J9207
J9042       Brentuximab   vedotin  inj            J9208
J9043       Cabazitaxel  injection                J9211
J9045       Carboplatin  injection                J9212
J9047       Injection, carfilzomib, 1 mg          J9213
J9020       Asparaginase,   NOS                   J9214
J9025       Azacitidine injection                 J9215
J9027       Clofarabine  injection                J9216
J9031       Bcg  live intravesical vac            J9217
J9032       Injection, belinostat, 10 mg          J9218
J9033       Bendamustine    injection             J9219
J9035       Bevacizumab     injection             J9225
Injection, blinatumomab,   1
J9039       microgram                             J9226
J9040       Bleomycin   sulfate injection         J9228
Cyclophosphamide      lyophilized      J9299       Injection, nivolumab,  1 mg
Cyclophosphamide      lyophilized      J9300       Gemtuzumab     ozogamicin   inj
Cytarabine   liposome  inj             J9301       Injection, obinutuzumab,   10 mg
Cytarabine   hcl 100 MG   inj          J9302       Ofatumumab     injection
Cytarabine   hcl 500 MG   inj          J9303       Panitumumab     injection
Dactinomycin    injection              J9305       Pemetrexed    injection
Dacarbazine   100  mg  inj             J9306       Injection, pertuzumab,   1 mg
Dacarbazine   200  MG  inj             J9307       Pralatrexate  injection
Daunorubicin   injection               J9308       Injection, ramucirumab,   5 mg
Daunorubicin   citrate inj             J9310       Rituximab   injection
Degarelix  injection                   J9315       Romidepsin    injection
Denileukin  diftitox inj               J9320       Streptozocin  injection
Diethylstilbestrol injection           J9328       Temozolomide    injection
Docetaxel   injection                  J9330       Temsirolimus   injection
Docetaxel   injection                  J9340       Thiotepa  injection
Inj, epirubicin hcl, 2 mg              J9350       Topotecan   injection
Eribulin mesylate   injection          J9351       Topotecan   injection
Etoposide   injection                  J9354       Inj, ado-trastuzumab   emt  1mg
Fludarabine   phosphate   inj          J9355       Trastuzumab    injection
Fluorouracil  injection                J9357       Valrubicin injection
Floxuridine  injection                 J9360       Vinblastine  sulfate inj
Gemcitabine    hcl injection           J9370       Vincristine sulfate 1 MG  inj
Goserelin  acetate  implant            J9371       Inj, vincristine sul lip 1mg
Irinotecan  injection                  J9375       Vincristine sulfate 2 MG  inj
Ixabepilone  injection                 J9380       Vincristine sulfate 5 MG  inj
Ifosfamide  injection                  J9390       Vinorelbine  tartrate inj
Idarubicin hcl injection               J9395       Injection, Fulvestrant
Interferon alfacon-1  inj              J9400       Inj, ziv-aflibercept, 1mg
Interferon alfa-2a  inj                J9600       Porfimer  sodium   injection
Interferon alfa-2b  inj                J9999       Chemotherapy     drug
Interferon alfa-n3  inj                Q2017       Teniposide,  50 mg
Interferon gamma    1-b inj            Q2043       Provenge,   50 million autologous
CD54+   cells
Leuprolide  acetate  suspnsion         Q2048       Doxil injection
Leuprolide  acetate  injeciton         Q2049       Lipodox  10 mg
Leuprolide  acetate  implant           Q2050       Doxil 10mg
Vantas  implant                        Q9979       Injection, alemtuzumab
Supprelin  LA implant
Approach           Description                  Method   of price  determination
Setting  medicine   price
Cost-based         Setting price of a           Assessment  of costs through  data collection and financial accounting. This may
pricing            medicine  based  on  the     include the following elements:
costs of inputs and add      1.   Assessing relevant costs along  a predefined scope  along  the value chain to the
to it a mark-up                   point at which the price would  be set. The data may  include direct material costs,
percentage   or amount            direct labour costs, overhead costs associated  with R&D,  manufacturing,
regulatory processes  and compliance,  communication,    storage and  distribution,
dispensing  and administration
2.   Assessing and  negotiating an  acceptable level and structure of profit margin in
addition to the costs
Value-based        Setting price of a           Comparative   assessment  of value through  health technology  assessment  or
pricing            medicine  based  on  the     appraisals. These may  include all or some of the following elements:
differentiated               1.  Assessing  comparative  health gains
worth/value  of this
2.  Assessing  comparative  cost-effectiveness
medicine patients compared for a group to of 3. Assessing affordability/financial impacts to the patient and health system
the value  of comparable     4.  Assessing  other (less quantifiable) factors, such as: severity of the medical
medicines                        condition; public health importance;  confidence  in the clinical evidence and
assessment;  equity of access; quality use of medicines; and societal value
5.  Setting a price that is commensurate   with the determination  of “value”
External           Set price according  to      1.  Select a set of comparable  countries in which the medicine  has already  been
reference          the prices in other              launched
pricing            comparable   referenced      2.  Obtain  prices from these countries
countries/organizations
3.  Determine   the price based on  criteria such as average price, lowest price, and
additional criteria (e.g. average of the four lowest prices)
Internal           Set price according  to      1.  Determine   internal benchmarks:  for example, budget  constraint, prices of
reference          the prices of internal           comparable   medicines
pricing            benchmark    prices          2.  Set or negotiate  price
•   28–50%       10 drugs (32%
sample)
•   50–100%      16 drugs (52%)
•   100–200%     3 drugs (10%)
•   >200%        2 drugs (6%)
Journal                             Avg. Coverage
JAMA   Internal Medicine                      21.2
JAMA:   Journal of the American               16.9
Medical Association
Pediatrics                                    16.5
Current Biology                               16.1
JAMA   Pediatrics                             15.0
MMWR:    Morbidity  & Mortality               14.9
Weekly  Report
Circulation                                   14.7
New  England  Journal of Medicine             14.4
Nature Geoscience                             13.0
Nature Climate Change                         13.0
Subject                                  Avg. Coverage
health information management                       15.4
health, toxicology and mutagenesis                  10.7
pediatrics, perinatology, and child                 10.5
health
environmental  science, miscellaneous               10.1
agricultural and biological sciences,                9.7
miscellaneous
internal medicine                                    9.5
general earth planetary sciences                     8.9
epidemiology                                         8.8
archaeology                                          8.7
social sciences, miscellaneous                       8.4
Individual  Contributions    (Cont.)                                                       Individual  Contributions   (Cont.)
Near  term                        Midpoint                      Contribution               Near term                        Midpoint                       Contribution
Strike       Option  Type         Price          Delta-K         by Strike                 Strike       Option  Type         Price         Delta-K         by Strike
1865             Put              5.250            5          0.0000075471                 1965             Call           24.150             5          0.0000312732
1870             Put              5.600            5          0.0000080073                 1970             Call           21.100             5          0.0000271851
1875             Put              6.000            5          0.0000085335                 1975             Call           18.300             5          0.0000234584
1880             Put              6.400            5          0.0000090541                 1980             Call           15.700             5          0.0000200240
1885             Put              6.850            5          0.0000096393                 1985             Call           13.300             5          0.0000168776
1890             Put              7.350            5          0.0000102883                 1990             Call           11.100             5          0.0000140152
1895             Put              7.900            5          0.0000109999                 1995             Call            9.150             5          0.0000114952
1900             Put              8.300            5          0.0000114961                 2000             Call            7.400             5          0.0000092502
1905             Put              9.000            5          0.0000124003                 2005             Call            5.850             5          0.0000072763
1910             Put              9.650            5          0.0000132263                 2010             Call            4.650             5          0.0000057550
1915             Put             10.600            5          0.0000144526                 2015             Call            3.550             5          0.0000043718
1920             Put             11.400            5          0.0000154626                 2020             Call            2.700             5          0.0000033086
1925             Put             12.100            5          0.0000163269                 2025             Call            2.050             5          0.0000024997
1930             Put             13.250            5          0.0000177861                 2030             Call            1.550             5          0.0000018807
1935             Put             14.150            5          0.0000188962                 2035             Call            1.150             5          0.0000013885
1940             Put             15.250            5          0.0000202603                 2040             Call            0.875             5          0.0000010513
1945             Put             16.550            5          0.0000218745                 2045             Call            0.675             5          0.0000008070
1950             Put             18.250            5          0.0000239979                 2050             Call            0.575            7.5         0.0000010262
1955             Put             19.750            5          0.0000258376                 2060             Call            0.350            10          0.0000008248
1960       Put/Call Average      24.250            5          0.0000296432                 2070             Call            0.250            7.5         0.0000004376
1965             Call            21.050            5          0.0000272588                 2075             Call            0.200            15          0.0000006968
1970             Call            18.100            5          0.0000233198                 2100             Call            0.150            25          0.0000008504
1975             Call            15.250            5          0.0000195486                 2125             Call            0.100            25          0.0000005536
1980             Call            12.750            5          0.0000162614                 2150             Call            0.100            37.5        0.0000008113
1985             Call            10.450            5          0.0000132609                 2200             Call            0.075            50          0.0000007748
1990             Call             8.450            5          0.0000106691
1995             Call             6.650            5          0.0000083544
2000             Call             4.950            5          0.0000061876               Sum     of Individual     Contributions                   0.000831402
2005             Call             3.800            5          0.0000047264
2010             Call             2.875            5          0.0000035582                2         KK  i e R T Q ( K i )                               0.018838
2015             Call             2.025            5          0.0000024938                T            2
i      i
2020             Call             1.450            5          0.0000017768
2025             Call             1.125            5          0.0000013718
2030             Call             0.725            5          0.0000008797
2035             Call             0.525            5          0.0000006339
2040             Call             0.500            5          0.0000006007                                        2
R T
2045             Call             0.400            5          0.0000004782                                                          2 i  e       Q   ( K   i )
2050             Call             0.250            5          0.0000002974                                       T              KK
i          i
2055             Call             0.325            5          0.0000003848
2060             Call             0.225            5          0.0000002651
2065             Call             0.175            5          0.0000002052
2070             Call             0.150            5          0.0000001750
2075             Call             0.150            5          0.0000001742
2080             Call             0.250            5          0.0000002889
2085             Call             0.225            5          0.0000002588
2090             Call             0.100            5          0.0000001145               Sum     of Individual     Contributions                 0.0006320516
2095             Call             0.200            5          0.0000002278                2         KK
2100             Call             0.100            15         0.0000003401                             2 i e R T Q ( K i )                         0.018494953
T           i
2125             Call             0.100            25         0.0000005536                     i
Table 1. Leading   causes  of deaths  and  disability-adjusted   life-years  (DALYs)  in middle-income     and  low-income    countries
Causes   of deathsa                                     %  of total        Causes   of DALYs                                         %  of total
deaths                                                                       DALYs
1. Ischaemic  heart disease                                 11.5            1. Lower respiratory infections                              6.8
2. Cerebrovascular  disease                                  8.9            2. Perinatal conditions                                      6.7
3. Lower  respiratory infections                             7.3            3. HIV/AIDS                                                  6.6
4. HIV/AIDS                                                  6.1            4. Meningitis                                                4.6
5. Perinatal conditions                                      5.1            5. Diarrhoeal diseases                                       4.6
6. Chronic  obstructive pulmonary disease                    4.7            6. Unipolar depressive disorders                             4.0
7. Diarrhoeal diseases                                       4.4            7. Ischaemic heart disease                                   3.5
8. Tuberculosis                                              3.4            8. Malaria                                                   3.0
9. Road  traffic accidents                                   2.4            9. Cerebrovascular disease                                   2.9
10. Malaria                                                   2.3          10.  Road traffic accidents                                    2.8
11. Hypertensive  heart disease                               1.7          11.  Tuberculosis                                              2.6
12. Measles                                                   1.6          12.  Congenital anomalies                                      2.3
13. Trachea, bronchus,  lung cancers                          1.6          13.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary  disease                    2.3
14. Self-inflicted injuries                                   1.5          14.  Measles                                                   2.0
15. Cirrhosis of the liver                                    1.4          15.  Cirrhosis of the liver                                    2.0
Vaccine: DTaP           Vaccine:               Vaccine:                Vaccine:
Lot #:                  Lot #:                 Lot #:                 Lot #:
Exp Date:              Exp  Date:              Exp Date:              Exp  Date:
Site Given:            Site Given:             Site Given:            Site Given:
African horse  sickness virus                                       Virus
African swine  fever virus                                          Virus
Akabane   virus                                                     Virus
Avian  influenza virus (highly pathogenic)                          Virus
Bluetongue   virus (exotic)                                         Virus
Bovine  spongiform  encephalopathy    agent                         Prion
Camel  pox  virus                                                   Virus
Classical swine  fever virus                                        Virus
Cowdria  ruminantium   (Heartwater)                                 Bacteria
Foot-and-mouth   disease  virus                                     Virus
Goat  pox virus                                                     Virus
Japanese   encephalitis virus                                       Virus
Lumpy   skin disease virus                                          Virus
Malignant  catarrhal fever virus (exotic)                           Virus
Menangle   virus                                                    Virus
Mycoplasma    capricolum/M.  F38/M.  mycoides   capri (contagious
caprine pleuropneumonia)                                            Bacteria
Mycoplasma    mycoides   mycoides  (contagious  bovine
pleuropneumonia)                                                    Bacteria
Newcastle   disease virus (VVND)                                    Virus
Peste  des petits ruminants  virus                                  Virus
Rinderpest  virus                                                   Virus
Sheep  pox  virus                                                   Virus
Swine  vesicular disease  virus                                     Virus
Vesicular stomatitis virus (exotic)                                 Virus
Office Use  Only
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Exposure                Measured      Valid?    Reason  (Willett)                                Reason  (Margetts  / Nelson)
in
Copper  : Superoxide     Erythrocy    Yes     Among   four men  fed a copper deficient diet for
dismutase                te                   4 months, erythrocyte S.O.D  declined for all 4.
Copper  repletion restored S.O.D levels
Copper                   Plasma/se    No      No  (p 211): large number of lifestyle
rum                  factors/pathologic conditions probably alter
blood copper  concentrations (smoking,
infections)
Copper                   Hair         No      No  evidence (212) and data suggests influenced    No. Copper-dependent   enzyme  superoxide
by external contamination                          dismutase in erythrocytes and copper-protein
complex  caeroplasmin  in serum have been
shown  to be associated with copper intake, but
these markers may  be influenced by nondietary
factors (p 193)
Selenium                 Blood        Yes     Yes. Erythrocyte is probably superior to serum     Yes (p 193). Relationship between  selenium
compone              as                                                 intake and biomarkers is reasonably good.
nts                  measure  of long-term intake (p 206). Lower        Urine: reasonable marker, plasma  reflects intake
Toenails             influence of environment  in countries where       provided that the range of variation is large. Red
wearing  shoes is norm (toenails). Selenium        cell and glutathione perioxidase are
status is reduced by smoking, also in older        markers of longer-term intakes. Hair and
persons (p 207); Relationship of selenium with     toenails are alternative possibilities, although
disease may  be modified by other antioxidants     contamination  of hair samples with shampoo
(vit E and C)                                      must be controlled for
Glutathione              Plasma       No      Is poor measure of selenium  intake among
perioxidase              Serum                persons with moderate  and high exposure  (p
Erythrocy            206)
tes
Blood
Brick Category           Cleaning  Method                                             Remarks
Bucket  and Brush
Red and  Red  Flashed        Hand  Cleaning         Water,  detergents, emulsifying agents, or suitable proprietary compounds   may  be
Pressurized  Water       used.
Abrasive Blasting
Bucket  and Brush       Clean  with water, detergents, emulsifying agents, or suitable proprietary
White, Tan, Buff, Gray,       Hand  Cleaning         compounds.    Unbuffered muriatic acid solutions tend to cause stains in brick
Pink, Brown, Black,       Pressurized  Water       containing manganese    and  vanadium.  Light colored brick are more susceptible  to
Specks   and Spots
Abrasive Blasting        "acid burn" and  stains, compared  to darker units.
Clean  with water and scrub  brush using light pressure. Stubborn mortar stains may
Sand  Finish or          Bucket  and Brush       require use of cleaning solutions. Abrasive blasting is not recommended.   Cleaning
Surface Coating           Hand  Cleaning         may  affect appearance.
See  Brick Category   for additional remarks based on  brick color.
Wipe  glazed  surface with soft cloth within a few minutes of laying units. Use a soft
Bucket  and Brush       sponge   or brush plus ample water supply  for final washing. Use detergents where
Hand  Cleaning
Glazed  Brick                                   necessary  and  proprietary cleaners only for very difficult mortar stain. Consult brick
and  cleaner manufacturer  before use  of proprietary cleaners on salt glazed or
Pressurized  Water       metallic glazed brick. Do not use abrasive powders.  Do  not use metal cleaning
tools or brushes.
Method  is generally     Many   manufacturers  of colored mortars do not recommend    chemical  cleaning
Colored Mortars            controlled by         solutions. Unbuffered  acids and some  proprietary cleaners tend to bleach colored
Brick Category         mortars. Mild detergent  solutions are generally recommended.
Documentos    Necessários
Procedimento                                                                                                   Pedido/Relatório  Médico  (CRM)
Recibo  (Original)                         Nota Fiscal (Original)
Original
Deve   constar:   Nome    e  CNPJ    da
Deve  constar: Nome   completo  do paciente,   entidade prestadora, nome  completo  do
especialidade, descrição  do  procedimento,    paciente, especialidade,  descrição  do
data de  atendimento,  valor numérico e  por   procedimento, data de atendimento, valor
Consulta  Médica         extenso,  nome    do  médico,  CRM,    CPF,    numérico   e  por  extenso,  nome    do                    -
assinatura, carimbo do médico  e telefone do   médico, CRM,  CPF, assinatura e carimbo
local de atendimento.                          do  médico.  Nota  fiscal deve   conter
quitação.
Deve   constar:   Nome    e  CNPJ    da   Deve  constar : Nome  completo do
Deve   constar:  Datas   de  realização das    entidade prestadora, datas de realização  paciente,   data    de   emissão,
Sessão  de                                                              das   sessões,   nome    completo    do
psicoterapia, Terapia    sessões,   nome    completo   do   paciente,   paciente, especialidade,  descrição  do   indicação clínica e ou diagnóstico
Ocupacional,             descrição do procedimento,  valor numérico e   procedimento, data de atendimento, valor  (CID). O mesmo   é válido por  um
Fonoaudiologia   e       por extenso, nome  e carimbo  do profissional  numérico  e  por  extenso,  número   do   ano  a contar da data  da vigência
executante,  CPF  e  número  do  registro no                                             do plano (aniversário contrato).
Escleroterapia           conselho.                                      registro no conselho, assinatura, nome e  Obs.:  Relatório  médico   deverá
carimbo do profissional executante. Nota  ser atualizado a cada  ano.
fiscal deve conter quitação.
Deve  constar  : nome completo do
Deve   constar:   Nome    e  CNPJ    da   paciente,   data    de   emissão,
entidade prestadora, datas de realização  indicação clínica e ou diagnóstico
Deve   constar:  Datas   de  realização das    das   sessões,   nome    completo    do   (CID), assinatura  e carimbo   do
sessões,   nome    completo   do   paciente,   paciente, especialidade,  descrição  do   médico   solicitante. O mesmo    é
FISIOTERAPIAS    EM      descrição do procedimento,  valor numérico e   procedimento, data de atendimento, valor  válido por três meses.
GERAL   - RPG  –
HIDROTERAPIA             por extenso, CPF,  nome, número  do registro   numérico   e  por  extenso,  nome    do   Obs.:      Relatório      médico
no   conselho,  carimbo   e  assinatura  do    fisioterapeuta, número  do  registro no   contendo      a   evolução     da
profissional executante.                       conselho, CPF,  assinatura e carimbo do   patologia, deverá  ser atualizado
profissional executante. Nota fiscal deve a  cada  3 meses.   Não  é  válido
conter quitação.                          pedido         emitido        por
fisioterapeuta.
Deve  constar: Nome   completo  do paciente,   Deve   constar:   Nome    completo   do
especialidade,   descrição    dos   exames     paciente, discriminação  individualizada  Deve  constar  : nome completo do
Exames                   realizados  e valores  individuais, data de    dos exames  realizados (nome  do exame    paciente,   data    de   emissão,
e valor cobrado), valor numérico  e por   indicação clínica e ou diagnóstico
(Laboratoriais,          atendimento,  valor numérico e por  extenso,   extenso. Nome   do médico,  CRM,  CPF,    (CID),   descrição  dos   exames
Radiológicos)            nome   do  médico,  CRM,   CPF,  assinatura,   assinatura, carimbo   do  médico  Nota    solicitados, carimbo e  assinatura
carimbo  do  médico  e telefone do  local de   fiscal deve conter quitação.              do médico  solicitante.
atendimento.
Deve    constar:  Nome    e  CNPJ    da
Deve  constar: Nome   completo  do paciente,   entidade prestadora, nome  completo  do   Deve  constar : Informar no pedido
PROCEDIMENTOS            especialidade,  descrição  do  procedimento    paciente, especialidade,  descrição  do   médico   descrição detalhada  das
AMBULATORIAIS            realizado,  data   de   atendimento,   valor   procedimento, data de atendimento, valor  lesões e procedimentos  realizados
(CIRUGIAS   DE                                                                                                    para cada uma.
PEQUENO    PORTE)        numérico  e  por extenso, nome   do médico,    numérico  e por  extenso,   CRM,  CPF,    Enviar    laudo    de    anátomo
CRM,  CPF,  assinatura e carimbo do médico.    assinatura, nome  e carimbo do  médico.   patológico (se houver).
Nota fiscal deve conter quitação.
Honorários  Médicos:
Deve   constar:   Nome    e  CNPJ    da   Relatório Médico:
entidade prestadora, nome  completo  do   Deve  constar : Nome  completo do
Honorários  Médicos   :                        paciente, descrição  do   procedimento,   paciente,   data    de   emissão,
valor numérico  e por extenso, data  da
Recibo   deve  constar: Nome   completo  do    realização da cirurgia. Discriminação dos diagnóstico,  quadro    clínico  e
INTERNAÇÃO     -         paciente,   especialidade,   descrição   do    profissionais participantes na  cirurgia  cirurgia  realizada,   tempo   de
HONORÁRIOS               procedimento,   data  de atendimento,  valor   (nome, CPF,  CRM   e atuação  (cirurgião, evolução   da  doença,   data  de
MÉDICOS    E             numérico  e por  extenso, CPF,  CRM,  nome                                               internação   e  alta,  carimbo   e
DESPESAS                 completo, carimbo, assinatura do profissional  1º, 2º, 3º, 4º auxiliar, instrumentador,  assinatura do médico (CRM).
HOSPITALARES             executante  e atuação  na cirurgia (cirurgião, anestesista).                             Obs.:   Se   o  atendimento    for
1º,  2º,  3º,  4º  auxiliar, instrumentador,   Despesas     hospitalares:   Data    de   clínico,   necessário    relatório
internação e data da alta, discriminação
anestesista).                                  das   despesas   hospitalares   (diárias, médico    com    o   diagnóstico,
materiais,  medicamentos     e   taxas,   quadro   clínico, especialidade  e
discriminar itens e valores unitários).   quantidade  de  visitas cobradas.
Nota fiscal deve conter quitação.
Honorários  Médicos:                           Nome   completo  do paciente, descrição
Recibo   deve  constar: Nome   completo  do    do procedimento,  valor numérico  e por   Em    cumprimento   à   Resolução
extenso, data da realização da  cirurgia.
paciente,   especialidade,   descrição   do    Discriminação     dos      profissionais  Normativa    (RN    368),  há    a
PARTO                    procedimento,   data  de atendimento,  valor   participantes (nome,   CPF,    CRM    e   obrigatoriedade   do   envio   do
CESÁREA/NORMAL           numérico  e  por extenso, nome   do médico,    atuação na cirurgia (cirurgião, 1º auxiliar, partograma, relatório   médico
CRM,  CPF,  assinatura, carimbo do médico  e                                             detalhado     e/ou    termo    de
atuação  na  cirurgia (cirurgião, 1º auxiliar, instrumentador, anestesista). Nota fiscal consentimento.
instrumentador, anestesista).                  deve conter quitação.
Table2.KeyTerminologyandExamplesofTherapeuticProducts
Term           Definition                                      Examples
Brand-name     Amedicationusuallysoldbytheoriginal             Nexium,
drug           sponsoroftheapplicationforregulatory            Crestor,
approval                                        Prilosec
Generic        Aversionofabrand-namesmall-molecule             Omeprazole,
drug           drugmanufacturedbyadifferentsupplier.           simvastatin
Genericdrugscanbecertifiedasbioequivalent
bytheFDAandsubstitutedforbrand-name
drugsbyapharmacist.
Biologic       Anoftenprotein-basedtherapeuticproduct          Filgrastim,
drug           thatisdistinguishedbyitsmolecular               epoetinalfa
complexity
Specialty      Adrugdesignatedbyapayerforspecial               Sovaldi,
drug           attention,oftenbecauseofitshighprice,but        Praluent,
alsopotentiallybecauseoftheneedfor              Soliris
distinctivehandlingorparticularpatient
monitoring
Abbreviation:FDA,FoodandDrugAdministration.
Australia                                         Canada                          Germany                       UnitedKingdom
National        PharmaceuticalBenefits     PatentedMedicinesPrices       CanadianAgencyfor        FederalJointCommitteeor       NationalInstitutefor
organization    AdvisoryCommittee          ReviewBoard                   DrugsandTechnology       InstituteforQualityand        HealthandClinical
inHealthcare             EfficiencyinHealthcare        Excellence
Remit           Publicpayers               Allpayers                     Publicpayersexcept       Allinsurers                   NationalHealthService
inQuebec(noncancer
drugs)
Review          Comparativeeffectiveness,  Therapeuticinnovation;        Comparative              Comparativebenefit            Clinicaleffectiveness
criteria        safety,and                 comparativepricingwith        effectiveness,safety,                                  andcost-effectiveness
cost-effectiveness;        respecttoFrance,Germany,      andcost-effectiveness;
projectedusageand          Italy,Sweden,United           patientexperiences
overallcoststothehealth    Kingdom,andUnitedStates
caresystem
Decision        Coverage(yes,no,limited)   Pricereductionsorrebates      Coverage                 Pricesettingafterfirstyear    Coverage
onthemarket
Binding         Yes                        Yes                           No                       Yes                           Yes
Authors
Criteria                   Editors                      Scientific  Contributions                       Career   Advancement
Objectivity       Blind reviewing                      Submit  to journal with blind           ↔     Submit  to journal with blind
Favor multiple hypotheses            reviews                                       reviews  if author known  or from
Authors to nominate  referees                                                      high  status institution
“Note to Referees”
Two-sided  recommendations    by     Use  multiple hypotheses                ↔     Advocate   a dominant  hypothesis
referees
Unrefereed  contributions            Challenge  current beliefs              ↔     Do  not challenge  current beliefs
Open  peer review
Replicability     Full disclosure of method/data                                               ↔
Provide  full disclosure                      Avoid  full disclosure
(use supporting  documents)
Public access  to method/data
Encourage   replications                                                           Reuse   previous design
Importance        Use “Note  to Referees”  to:
Rate importance                    Select important  problems              ↔     Avoid  important problems
Predict results
Obtain evidence  on  applications    Describe  why  paper is important             Avoid  surprising results
Examine  citation rate               Describe  use of recommendations
Referees  from other disciplines
Competence        Evidence  of prior peer review       Use  most appropriate  method           ↔     Use  complex   methods
Structured guide  for referees
Adequate  competency?                Include all literature relevant         ↔     Cite approved   works  only
Blind reviews
“Note to Referees”  used  to rate    Obtain  prior peer review                     Use  self-citations
competence
Technical review                     Check  references  against original
source
Complete/accurate   literature       Report  errors after publication
review
Open  peer review
Intelligibility   Ask referees  to:                    Write clearly                           ↔     Write  obtusely for unimportant
papers
Rate readability                                                                 Write  clearly for important papers
Suggest  improvements
Publish readability index
Referees  with varied
backgrounds
Copy  editing by the publisher
Efficiency        No page  limit                       Make  paper  as short as possible             Make   paper as  short as possible
Rate length vs. contribution         Provide  supporting documents
Publish “Papers  Accepted”  list
Referees  to receive:
Time  deadlines
Specialty            DO Graduates        U.S. MD
Graduates
Family Medicine      19.51%              7.39%
Pediatrics           8.14%               10.04%
General Internal     18.66%              16.7%
Medicine
Emergency            11.61%              7.25%
Medicine
Obstetrics and       5.52%               5.07%
Gynecology
Psychiatry           4.03%               3.65%
Diagnostic           2.53%               5.04%
Radiology
Anesthesiology       4.26%               6.26%
Orthopedic Surgery   2.53%               3.53%
Dermatology          0.71%               1.76%
Neurological         0.32%               0.99%
Surgery
Telephone
Mid-Year                  Variance       Reason  for variance
Update                    as % of          where  material
Strategic Plan    Revised                   Original         (Normally > £50k
Forecast       Outturn       Variance    Forecast            and > 10%)
2002-03         2002-03
£'000         £'000        £'000         %
Income
Funding Council Grants                                           0             0            0       N/A
Tuition Fees and Education Contracts                             0             0            0       N/A
Research  Grants and Contracts                                   0             0            0       N/A
Other Income                                                     0             0            0       N/A
Endowment   and Investment Income                                0             0            0       N/A
Total Income                                                     0             0            0       N/A
Expenditure
Staff Costs                                                      0             0            0       N/A
Exceptional restructuring costs                                  0             0            0       N/A
Other Operating Expenses                                         0             0            0       N/A
Depreciation                                                     0             0            0       N/A
Interest Payable                                                 0             0            0       N/A
Total Expenditure                                                0             0            0       N/A
Surplus/(Deficit) after Depreciation of Assets
at Valuation and before Tax                                      0             0            0       N/A
Gain/(Loss) on Disposal  of Assets                               0             0            0       N/A
Surplus/(Deficit) after Depreciation of
Assets at Valuation and Disposal  of Assets
but before tax                                                   0             0            0       N/A
Taxation (input as negative)                                     0             0            0       N/A
Minority Interest (input as negative)                            0             0            0       N/A
Surplus/(Deficit) after Depreciation of
Assets at Valuation, Disposal of Assets and Tax                  0             0            0       N/A
Note of Historical Costs Surpluses and  Deficits
Surplus/(Deficit) after Depreciation of Assets                   0             0            0       N/A
at Valuation and Tax
Difference between an Historical Cost
Depreciation Charge and the Actual
Depreciation Charge for the Year
Calculated on the Revalued Amount                                0             0            0       N/A
Realisation of Property Revaluation Gain
of Previous Years                                                0             0            0       N/A
Historical Cost Surplus/(Deficit)
after Tax                                                        0             0            0       N/A
Nutrient                Biologic       Val./reproduc      Coef      Details
tissue
Iron (ferritin)         Serum          Validity           0.16      Borderline 0.16 correlation with heme  intake but only r-0.15 with total iron
intake (Willett p 208). Included as marker of iron storage
Copper  (Superoxide     Erythrocyte    -                  -         S.O.D  levels reflect both depletion and repletion of Cu (Willett p 212)
dismutase)
Selenium                Serum          Validity           0.63      Correlation between  selenium  intake and serum selenium  in South Dakotans
(n=44)(Willett, p 186)
Reproducibility    0.76      Average  correlation between repeated  measurements   at four 3-month intervals
in 78 adults (Willett, p 188)
Toenails       Validity           0.59      Correlation between  selenium  intake and toenail selenium level in South
Dakotans  (n=44) (Willett, p 186)`
Reproducibility    0.48      Correlation for selenium levels in toenails collected 6 years apart from 127 US
women   (Willett, p 206)
Whole          Validity           0.62      Correlation between  selenium  intake and whole blood  selenium  in South
blood                                       Dakotans  (n=44) (Willett, p 186)
Reproducibility    0.95      Average  correlation between repeated  measurements   at four 3-month intervals
in 78 adults (Willett, p 188)
Linoleic acid           Adipose        Validity           0.57      Correlation between  dietary linoleic acid intakes determined from 7-day
tissue                                      weighted  diet records and the relative proportion of linoleic acid in adipose
tissue in Scottish men (n=164). Also correlation between  linoleic acid measured
in adipose tissue and calculated from FFQ  in 118 Boston-area  men  (Willett, p
220)
Eicosapentaenoic        Adipose        Validity           0.40      Correlation with intake estimated from  three 7-day weighted food  records
(n-3)                   tissue                                      (Willett, p 223).
Reproducibility    0.68      Correlation over 8 months  in 27 men  and women   aged 20-29  (Willett, p 223).
Plasma         Validity           0.23      Correlation of cholesterol ester fraction and intake in 3,570 adults (Willett, p
223)
Reproducibility    0.38      Correlation of two measurements   taken 6 years apart in study of 759 Finnish
youths (Willett, p 219)
Exposure              Measured   in   Valid?    Reason   (Willett)                               Reason   (Margetts  / Nelson)
Retinol                  Plasma/se    Yes     Can  be measured  adequately, but limited          Main  biochemical  marker  of vit A intake is
rum                  interpretability in well-nourished population (p   serum  retinol (p 194) although in western
190).                                              countries dietary intake of this vitamin is only a
very minor  determinant of its plasma levels.
Retinol-Binding          Serum        Yes     Retinol levels are highly correlated to            May  be measure  of physiologically available
protein                                       RBP(p192).                                         form. Not  if certain disease processes exist (p
192).
Beta-carotene            Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 194) although blood levels much  more      Yes  (p 197)
responsive to supplemental  beta-carotene than
beta-carotene from  food sources (p 193)
Alpha-carotene           Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 194)                                       There  is some evidence for interaction between
Beta-cryptoxanthin                                                                               carotenoids during intestinal absorption, which
Lutein+zeaxanthin                                                                                may  complicate  relationship between intake and
Lycopene                                                                                         blood levels (p 198)
Vit E                    Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 196)                                       Plasma,  red and white blood cells. Yes, if used
NB.  Strong confounding  with serum  cholesterol   for vit E supplements. Yes, although if used for
and total lipid concentrations (p 196).            diet, associations are only moderate (p199)
RAI            No.  of words        No. of sentences       No. of paragraphs        Sentences/paragraph         Institutional location
ESPj1          140                  3                      1                        3.0                         France
ESPj2          163                  5                      1                        5.0                         Hong  Kong
ESPj3          588                  15                     4                        3.8                         Slovenia
ESPj4          397                  10                     3                        3.3                         Hong  Kong
ESPj5          517                  20                     3                        6.7                         Thailand
ESPj6          313                  12                     1                        12.0                        UK
ESPj7          311                  10                     2                        5.0                         Hungary
ESPj8          1142                 44                     7                        6.3                         Italy
ESPj9          1277                 47                     9                        5.2                         USA
ESPj10         495                  15                     4                        3.8                         UK,  Hong  Kong
Average        534.3                18.1                   3.5                      5.2
Citation                             Country                Cost at 2010 level         US$                    €                     £
Annual  costs
Chamberlain et al . [ 9 ]            England/Wales          £ 94 240 004                 136 044 870           109 949 813             94 240 004
Marks et al . [ 10 ]                 Australia              AU$204  136 795              178 514 585           144 273 321           123 659 314
Koopmanschap   et al . [ 11 ]        Netherlands            € 147 865 973 *              182 959 903           147 865 973           126 738 642
National Cancer Institute [ 12 ]     USA                    $11 524 053 605            11 524 053 605         9 313 600 264         7 982 857 859
First-year costs after diagnosis
Per Patient
Lazzaro et al . [ 13 ]               Italy                  € 10 165                          12 578                10 165                  8 713
Fourcade et al . [ 14 ]              UK                     € 3705                             4 585                 3 705                 3 176
Germany                € 4741                             5 866                 4 741                 4 063
France                 € 6837                             8 460                 6 837                 5 860
Italy                  € 6107                             7 556                 6 107                 5 234
Spain                  € 3805                             4 708                 3 805                  3 261
Roehrborn et al . [ 15 ]             USA                    $17 725                           17 725                14 325                12 278
Total prostate cancer
Fourcade et al . [ 14 ]              UK                     € 136 367 578                168 732 524           136 367 578            116 883 156
Germany                € 209 167 065                258 809 956           209 167 065           179 280 933
France                 € 195 728 958                242 182 500           195 728 958           167 762 885
Italy                  € 124 682 267                154 273 867           124 682 267            106 867 461
Spain                  € 133 913 663                165 696 206           133 913 663            114 779 860
Diagnosis, treatment and  5 years plus follow-up costs
Per patient
Benedict et al . †                   UK                     £ 6992                            10 094                 8 158                 6 992
Germany                € 12 794                          15 831                12 794                10 996
France                 € 11 364                          14 061                11 364                 9 740
Italy                  € 9951                            12 313                 9 951                 8 529
Spain                  € 9060                            11 210                 9 060                 7 765
Stokes et al . [ 17 ]                USA                    $23 116                           23 116                18 722                16 047
Total prostate cancer
Sangar et al . [ 16 ]                UK                     £ 136 278 237                196 731 262           158 995 819           136 278 237
Benedict et al . †                   UK                     € 314 334 863                388 937 866           314 334 863           269 422 185
Germany                €  567 906 110               702 690 717           567 906 109           486 762 758
France                 €  722 152 213               893 544 986           722 152 213           618 969 927
Italy                  €  425 345 317               526 295 105           425 345 316            364 571 284
Spain                  €  231 369 156               286 281 403           231 369 156            198 310 753
# of
Medication                   Type  of medication            patients studied         NNT
Diclofenac 100 mg                 Prescription NSAID                  545                1.8
Celecoxib 400 mg                  Prescription NSAID                  298                2.1
Ibuprofen 400 mg                  Prescription NSAID                 5456                2.5
Naproxen  400 mg                  Prescription NSAID                  197                2.7
Ibuprofen 200 mg                     OTC  NSAID                      3248                2.7
Oxycodone  10 mg  +
acetaminophen  1000 mg               Prescription opioid                 83                 2.7
Morphine 10  mg intramuscular            Injectable opioid                  948                2.9
Oxycodone  5 mg +                 Prescription opioid                 149                5.5
acetaminophen  325  mg
Tramadol 50 mg                   Prescription opioid                 770                8.3
System               Examples   of disorders, conditions,  and
symptoms
Neurological         Stroke, dementia, Parkinson  disease, seizure
disorders, headache  disorders, traumatic
brain injury, peripheral neuropathy, chronic
pain disorders, neuromuscular  disorders
Cardiovascular       Angina,  congestive heart failure, dyspnea,
dysrhythmias
Pulmonary            COPD,   emphysema,   asthma,  laryngospasm
Digestive            Reflux, peptic ulcer disease, cholelithiasis,
colitis, irritable bowel syndrome
Genitourinary        Incontinence, benign  prostatic hypertrophy,
nocturia, enuresis, interstitial cystitis
Endocrine            Hypothyroidism,   hyperthyroidism,  diabetes
mellitus
Musculoskeletal      Rheumatoid   arthritis, osteoarthritis,
fibromyalgia, Sjögren  syndrome,  kyphosis
Reproductive         Pregnancy,  menopause,   menstrual cycle
variations
Sleep disorders      Obstructive sleep apnea,  central sleep
apnea, restless legs syndrome, periodic limb
movement   disorder, circadian rhythm  sleep
disorders, parasomnias
Other                Allergies, rhinitis, sinusitis, bruxism,
alcohol and other substance  use/dependence/
withdrawal
Measured        Include                                                              Exclude
in
Plasma          Vit D                                                                Alkaline  phosphatase
Vit E: alpha-tocopherol,  gamma   tocopherol                         Minerals:  Zinc, Copper,  caeruloplasmin
Vit C                                                                Other  dietary lipids: Cholesterol, Triglycerides, LDL,
Provit A carotenoids:  Carotene, Alpha-carotene,  B-carotene         HDL
Nonprovit  A  carotenoids: Lycopene,  Cryptoxanthin   (B-),
zeaxanthin, Lutein
Selenium,  Selenoprotein
Folate,
Iron: ferritin
Vit A Retinol: Retinol  Binding Protein
Cadmium,   Cadmium/zinc    ratio
EPA  DHA    fatty acids
Adipose         n-3 fatty acids: EPA  (Eicosapentaenoic),  DHA                       Unsaturated  fat, Monounsaturated   fatty acids
tissue          (Docosahexaenoic)                                                    n-9 fatty acids
n-6 fatty acids                                                      other measures  of polyunsat  fa: M:S ratio, M:P ratio,
Trans fatty acids , Polyunsaturated fatty acids, Saturated fatty     n3-n6  ratio
acids
leucocyte       Vit C                                                                Zinc
Erythrocyte     n-6 fatty acids: linoleic                                            n-6 fatty acids (other than linoleic)
membrane                                                                             n-3 fatty acids: EPA  (Eicosapentaenoic),  DHA
(Docosahexaenoic)
Hair                                                                                 Minerals:  Zinc, Copper,  Manganese,   Iron
Cadmium
Toenails or     Selenium                                                             Cadmium,    zinc
fingernails
Table  4: The   results of  One-sample     sign  test for first three parts  of questionnaire
P-value
Experimental
First three parts                                   Mathematical                             Humanities
science
My   current  course  book  is sufficient for          0/5               0/00                0/00
mathematical   connections.
There     are     sufficient   mathematical
Items  for  perceptions   about                                                          0/01               0/01                0/36
sufficiency  of   mathematical     connections  during mathematics   teaching.
I think  that  I am   able to  connect  math
connections                        subjects to the real-life.                            0/00                0/5                0/69
I  think  that  I am   able  to  apply  math          0/00               0/00                0/00
subjects in the real-life.
Emphasizing   about why  should  I learn.             0/00               0/00                0/00
Emphasizing      about    benefits   of   the         0/00               0/00                0/00
mathematics   subjects.
Emphasizing     about   the  significance  of         0/00               0/00                0/00
mathematics   in the real-life.
Items  for  perceptions   about    Teaching   mathematics   with connections  to
0/00               0/00                0/00
importance    of  mathematical     the real-life.
connections                        Teaching   mathematics    through   hands-on
and  modeling  activities.                            0/00               0/00                0/00
Teaching   mathematics   with connections  to         0/00               0/00                0/00
the other courses.
Assessing    the    degree     of   applying
0/00               0/00                0/00
mathematics   subjects to the real-life.
Emphasizing   about why  should  I learn.             0/00               0/00                0/00
Emphasizing      about    benefits   of   the         0/00               0/00                0/00
mathematics   subjects.
Emphasizing     about   the  significance  of
0/00               0/00                0/00
mathematics   in the real-life.
Items  for  perceptions   about    Teaching   mathematics   with connections  to                                                0/00
the frequency  of mathematical     the real-life.                                        0/00               0/00
connections                        Teaching   mathematics    through   hands-on          0/00               0/00                0/00
and  modeling  activities.
Teaching   mathematics   with connections  to
0/00               0/00                0/00
the other courses.
Assessing    the    degree     of   applying
mathematics   subjects to the real-life.              0/00               0/01                0/00
5 to 20 Nautical Miles             20 to 50 Nautical Miles
< 30 m    => 30 m       %                                   %
Region          deep      deep      Exclusion      < 30 m    => 30 m   Exclusion
New  England          9,900     41,600       67           2,700   166,300       33
Mid-Atlantic States  46,500      8,500       67          35,500   170,000       33
California            2,650     57,250       67               0   238,300       33
Pacific Northwest      725      34,075       67               0     93,700      33
Total              59,775   141,425        67          38,200   668,300       33
1991         1992        1993        1994        1995        1996         1997        1998        1999        2000        2001
€ m         € m         € m         € m         € m          € m         € m         € m         € m         € m         € m
Turnover,  including  share  of joint ventures       1,608.5     1,576.4     1,904.8      2,193.3     2,520.0     3,354.1     4,234.3     5,210.9      6,733.8     8,869.8    10,443.5
Less: share  of joint ventures                         124.8       132.7       110.5        128.5        92.9       152.0       154.7       176.6        134.4       168.0       236.7
1,483.7     1,443.7     1,794.3      2,064.8     2,427.1     3,202.1     4,079.6     5,034.3      6,599.4     8,701.8    10,206.8
Group  trading profit        (a)                       108.4        90.9       118.5        156.3       216.5       272.7       343.5       436.4        651.6       871.1       950.7
Share  of joint ventures' operating profit                7.2         9.7         7.2        16.9         8.1        10.8        14.2         15.4        11.8        16.5        25.5
Exceptional items                                            -            -           -           -           -           -            -           -      64.2             -           -
Trading  profit, including share  of joint ventures    115.6       100.6       125.7        173.2       224.6       283.5       357.7       451.8        727.6       887.6       976.2
Interest payable (net)
- Group                                                (28.9)       (23.7)      (28.1)      (23.4)      (19.1)      (24.3)       (32.1)      (37.5)      (91.8)     (190.0)     (169.7)
- share of joint ventures                                (6.3)       (3.7)       (2.3)       (1.6)        (1.6)       (3.3)       (4.1)       (5.4)       (0.9)       (0.9)        (3.6)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation           80.4        73.2         95.3       148.2       203.9       255.9       321.5       408.9        634.9       696.7       802.9
Taxation on  profit on ordinary activities             (14.7)       (13.2)      (17.6)      (27.7)      (41.8)      (58.3)       (75.7)      (99.9)     (152.0)     (193.7)     (217.0)
Taxation on  exceptional items                               -            -           -           -           -           -            -           -     (25.7)            -           -
Profit on ordinary activies after taxation              65.7        60.0         77.7       120.5       162.1       197.6       245.8       309.0        457.2       503.0       585.9
Employment    of capital
Fixed  assets
- Intangible asset - goodwill                               -            -           -           -           -           -            -    138.2        629.2       954.6     1,153.5
- Tangible assets                                     539.6       570.2       718.0        806.5       895.2     1,235.5     1,518.8     2,287.6      3,225.8     4,550.9     5,150.5
- Financial assets                                     57.8        66.8         57.3        73.0       118.2       127.3       131.5         52.6        66.6       104.0       315.8
Net current assets             (b)                     120.2       111.8       106.2        114.4       132.9       255.3       313.4       512.5        607.9       915.1     1,039.8
Other liabilities             (c)                           -           -           -            -      (13.0)      (25.0)       (60.8)     (286.3)     (430.3)     (469.8)     (479.3)
717.6       748.8       881.5        993.9     1,133.3     1,593.1     1,902.9     2,704.6      4,099.2     6,054.8     7,180.3
Financed   as follows
Equity shareholders' funds                             472.6       468.9       733.9        756.4       868.2     1,055.8     1,308.4     1,552.8      2,200.5     3,073.9     4,734.2
Non-equity  share capital                                 1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2          1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2
Minority shareholders' equity interest                    3.6         3.1         4.4        13.0        11.7        12.5        13.7       285.3         37.0        35.7       135.1
Capital grants                                          15.5        14.2         13.4        12.7        12.1        11.1        10.4         19.9        18.8        17.3        15.7
Deferred  and future taxation                           29.6        33.8         44.0        43.7        48.9        70.3       104.0       115.9        172.4       306.9       400.4
Debt/(cash)                    (d)                      34.6        54.2       (108.6)      (30.4)      189.3       442.2       465.2       729.5      1,669.3     2,619.8     1,893.7
Convertible capital bonds     (e)                      160.5       173.4       193.2        197.3         1.9             -           -           -           -           -            -
717.6       748.8       881.5        993.9     1,133.3     1,593.1     1,902.9     2,704.6      4,099.2     6,054.8     7,180.3
Purchase  of tangible assets                            36.4        43.5         61.2        65.6       109.2       150.0       147.3       232.1        360.1       429.5       452.3
Acquisitions and investments                            43.7        85.2         98.5       202.7       164.3       532.2       240.5       603.8      1,420.7     1,605.1     1,080.1
Total capital expenditure                               80.1       128.7       159.7        268.3       273.5       682.2       387.8       835.9      1,780.8     2,034.6     1,532.4
Depreciation  and goodwill amortisation                 52.5        49.1         61.1        71.0        81.1       103.6       129.1       165.9        275.0       395.0       495.3
Earnings  per share (cent)        (f)                   19.84       18.05       22.34       30.72        41.14       48.65       58.11       72.08       97.02      113.79      115.32
Dividend  per share (cent)       (f)                     7.23        7.56        8.36         9.36       10.52       11.80       13.54       15.61       18.22        20.77       23.00
Cash  earnings per share  (cent)  (f)                   35.92       32.98       40.09       49.11        61.97       74.43       88.94      111.21      161.23      204.00      213.45
Dividend  cover (times)         (g)                     2.73        2.38         2.50         3.27        3.87        4.02        4.27        4.59         5.29        5.34        4.85
Frequency
Rank                          Journal                                (%)          TC     h-index     C/A      HC  (%)       IF     Total IF
𝑁  = 976
1st                       Malaria Journal                        136 (13.93)     1860       22      13.68    29 (21.32)   3.079    418.744
2nd          Antimicrobial  Agents and  Chemotherapy              96 (9.84)      2017       27      21.01    41 (42.71)    3.34    320.64
3rd     American  Journal of Tropical Medicine  and Hygiene       56 (5.74)      1124       19      20.07    19 (33.93)   2.699    151.144
4th                          Plos One                             38 (3.89)       733       16      19.29    13 (34.21)    3.54     134.52
5th                Journal of Infectious Diseases                 30 (3.07)      997        21      33.23    21 (70.00)   6.344     190.32
6th                        Acta  Tropica                          26 (2.66)      358        12      13.77    7 (26.92)    2.380     61.88
7th              Infection Genetics and  Evolution                 21 (2.15)     285        9       13.57     5 (23.81)   2.591     54.411
8th                            PNAS                               16 (1.64)      785        12      49.06    10 (62.50)   9.423    150.768
8th                    Trends in Parasitology                     16 (1.64)      242        9       15.13    4 (25.00)    7.295     116.72
10th               Emerging   Infectious Diseases                  15 (1.54)     229        9       15.27    3 (20.00)     6.99     104.85
Total                            450  (46.11%)                                                       1,704
Nutrient                Biologic       Val./reproduc     Coef      Details
tissue
Docosahexaenoic         Adipose        Validity          0.66      Correlation  with intake estimated from three 7-day weighted  food records
(n-3)                   Tissue                                     (Willett, p 223)
Reproducibility   0.93      Correlation  over 8 months  in 27 men and women   aged  20-29 (Willett, p 223).
Plasma         Validity          0.42      Correlation  of cholesterol ester fraction and intake in 3,570 adults (Willett, p
223)
Reproducibility   0.38      Correlation  of two measurements   taken 6 years apart in study of 759 Finnish
youths  (Willett, p 219)
Polyunsaturated         Adipose        Validity          0.80      Correlation  between  % of polyunsaturated  fatty acid relative to total fatty acid
fatty acids             tissue                                     intake and relative % of adipose tissue polyunsaturated fatty acid (Willett, p
220)
Palmitic acid           Adipose        Validity          0.27      Correlation  adipose tissue measurement  with a FFQ  estimate among   118 men.
tissue                                     A  correlation of 0.14 was reported among  women.   Among   20 healthy subjects,
correlations between  normal  intake of total saturated fatty acids and fatty acid
composition  of triglycerides in adipose tissue was 0.57 (Willett, p 224)
Stearic acid            Adipose        Validity          0.56      Among    20 healthy subjects, correlations between normal intake of total
tissue                                     saturated fatty acids and fatty acid composition of triglycerides in adipose
tissue (Willett, p 224)
Trans fatty acids       Adipose        Validity          0.40      Correlation  between  adipose trans and intake estimated from the average of two
tissue                                     FFQ   among  140  Boston-area women.   Previous study: 115  Boston area women,
correlation of 0.51 between  trans intake estimated from a single FFQ and  a fatty
acid measurement.   Among   118 Boston-area  men:  correlation of 0.29 between
trans fatty acid measured in adipose and by  FFQ  (Willett, p 225)
Nitrogen                Urine          Validity          0.69      Correlation  between  nitrogen intakes estimated from weighted  food records of
16  days and the average of six 24-h urine nitrogen levels (160 women)  (Willett,
p 227)
Phyto Oestrogens        Plasma         Validity          0.97      Urinary  excretion (24 h) and plasma  concentrations of PO were  significantly
Genistein, daidzein     24 hr urine                      0.92      related to measured  dietary PO intake (r 0.97, P<0.001 and r 0.92,
P<0.001   respectively). These findings validate the PO database and indicate
that 24 h urinary excretion and timed plasma  concentrations can be used  as
biomarkers  of PO  intake. Br J Nutr. 2004 Mar;91(3):447-57
Exposure                Measured       Valid?     Reason  (Willett)                                 Reason   (Margetts  / Nelson)
in
Zinc                      Any          No       No (p 212)  May  be marker  of short-term intake    No  biochemical  marker  is a good indicator of
Metallothionein  levels                No       (p 213)                                             zinc intake (p 192/193). This  is, in general
terms, also true for other trace metal nutrients
such  as copper, manganese,  chromium,   etc
Lipids: total fats        Any          No       No (p 213)                                          No,  there are no markers of total fat intake (p
215)
Cholesterol, LDL          Serum        No       No, but may  be useful to predict dietary changes   No,  relationship dietary cholesterol and
Lipoprotein  levels                             but not for dietary intake (p 215)                  lipoprotein levels of cholesterol are complex
and  appears to vary across range of intake
(p218)
Linoleic acid             Plasma       No       Plasma  linoleic acid can discriminate between      No  consistent relation between  dietary linoleic
groups with relatively large differences in intake  acid intake and plasma  linoleic acid (p 220).
but performs less well on an individual basis (p    Across  the range of fatty acids in the diet, fatty
Adipose      Yes      220)                                                acids levels in blood and other tissue (adipose
tissue                Yes (p 220)                                         tissue) reflect the dietary levels. NB levels are
not comparable   across tissues
Marine  omega-3   fatty   Serum        Yes      Yes (p 222/223),  although dose-response
acids (EPA,  DHA)         Plasma                relation
Adipose               remains to be determined
tissue
Monounsat   fatty acids   Plasma       No       No, plasma  levels are poor predictors of oleic
(oleic acid)              Adipose      No       acid intake, but adipose tissue may weakly
tissue                reflect oleic acid intake (p. 224). Validity is too
low
Polyunsat  fatty acids    Adipose      Yes      Yes (p 220)                                         No  info
tissue
interior Finish
AeVolue,   Ae Fa   TU
Insulation  Betrmen                        Furting  Strips Over
Furring  Stripe                       Continuaue    Insulation
f                                         i
i
;
ff
