Value-based pricing or value pricing aims to determine the prices of medicines according to the value or worth that patients and health systems attribute to the medicines. In theory, by linking price to value, value- based approaches are more likely to encourage companies to innovate and produce medicines with attributes that society and governments value most. In the context of medicines this would mean the public and government would be willing to pay for medicines that improve health conditions and minimize harms.
considerable challenge in assessing, measuring and translating the value of a medicine to a price. In particular, there is no universally accepted view on what dimensions of value should be considered for the purpose of determining medicine prices. Fig. 3.8 (p.34) shows the various dimensions of value noted in the literature and government guidelines, summarized into eight themes. Common dimensions considered in health technology assessments are: clinical and public health needs for the proposed medicine, clinical evidence, economic and financial public health considerations. More debatable is whether to include as innovativeness of the medicine, and the need to incentivize future
Needs     for  the   proposed      medicine
.     Severity  of condition
.     Availability of treatment  alternatives
Clinical    evidence
+   Comparative    health outcomes    (benefits/harms,   quality of life)
°   Level of confidence   in the level of evidence
Economic        impacts
+   Comparative    cost-effectiveness
*   Health  and  non-health  related  (e.g. productivity gains)
Financial      impacts
+   To  patients and  families (protection  against financial catastrophe)
*   To  insurance  scheme    and health  care  system
+   To  non-health  sectors  (e.g. social welfare)                                                                                       Medicine
Value
P rice
Access
+   Equitable  access
+   Ability to target patients most  likely to benefit
Public    health    consideration
°   Burden  of disease
+   Public health  interests (e.g. communicability,   drug  resistance)
Research       and   development
>   Innovativeness
+   Potential positive scientific externalities for local industry
development    or future knowledge   generation
“Hope”     and    public    expectation
+   Patients’ willingness to take  risks and  pay more   for medicines
with  a small probability of producing   positive health  outcomes
*  “Real  option  value’ - if a health technology  can  extend  life
because   this opens   up possibilities for individuals to benefit from
future advances    in medicine
