Andreas     Holzinger
Research  Unit Human-Computer      Interaction, Institute for Medical Informatics,Statistics & Documentation,
Medical  University Graz,  Austria
andreas.holzinger@medunigraz.at
Abstract: Biomedical Informatics can be defined as “the interdisciplinary field that studies and pursues the effective use of biomedical data, information and knowledge for scientific inquiry, problem solving, and decision making, motivated by efforts to improve human health.” However, professionals in the life sciences are facing an increasing quantity of highly complex, multi-dimensional and weakly structured data. While researchers in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and Knowledge Discovery in Databases (KDD) have for long been working independently to develop methods that can support expert end users to identify, extract and understand information out of this data, it is obvious that an interdisciplinary approach to bring these two fields closer together can yield synergies in the application of these methods to weakly structured complex medical data sets. The aim is to support end users to learn how to interactively analyse information properties and to visualize the most relevant parts – in order to gain knowledge, and finally wisdom, to support a smarter decision making. The danger is not only to get overwhelmed by increasing masses of data, moreover, there is the risk of modelling artifacts.
Data exploration has recently been hailed as the fourth paradigm in the investigation of nature, after empiricism, theory and computation (Bell, Hey & Szalay, 2009). Whether in astronomy or the life sciences, the flood of data requires sophisticated methods of handling. For example, researchers in bioinformatics collect, process and analyze masses of data, or in computational biology, they simulate biological systems, metabolic pathways, the behavior of a cell or how a protein is built (Hey, Tansley & Tolle, 2009). In clinical medicine, the end users are confronted with increased volumes of highly complex, noisy, high-dimensional, multivariate and often weakly- structured data (Holzinger, 2011c). The field of biomedical informatics concerns the information processing by both humans and computers, dealing with biomedical complexity (Patel, Kahol & Buchman, 2011) to support decision making which is still a central topic in biomedical informatics (Shortliffe, 2011).
Whereas Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) concentrates on human intelligence, and Knowledge Discovery in Data Mining (KDD) concentrates on machine intelligence, the grand challenge is to combine these diverse fields to support the expert end users in learning to interactively analyze information properties thus enabling them to visualize the relevant parts of their data. In other words, to enable effective human control over powerful machine intelligence and to integrate statistical methods with information visualization, to support human insight and decision making (Holzinger, 2011a). The broad application of business enterprise hospital information systems amasses large amounts of medical documents, which must be reviewed, observed, and analyzed by human experts (Holzinger et al., 2008a). All essential documents of the patient records contain a certain portion of data which has been entered in non- standardized format (aka free text). Although text can easily be created by the end users, the support of automatic analysis is extremely difficult (Gregory, Mattison & Linde, 1995), (Holzinger et al., 2000), (Lovis, Baud & Planche, 2000).
