Whose   Records  to be Disclosed
NAME   (First, Middle, Last, Suffix)
SSN                                 Birthday (MM/DD/YYYY)
1. All records and other information regarding my treatment, hospitalization, and outpatient care for my impairment(s) including, and not limited to: • Psychological, psychiatric or other mental impairment(s) (excludes "psychotherapy notes" as defined in 45 CFR 164.501) • Drug abuse, alcoholism, or other substance abuse • Sickle cell anemia • Records which may indicate the presence of a communicable or noncommunicable disease; and tests for or records of HIV/AIDS • Gene-related impairments (including genetic test results)
3. Copies of educational tests or evaluations, including Individualized Educational Programs, triennial assessments, psychological and speech evaluations, and any other records that can help evaluate function; also teachers' observations and evaluations. 4. Information created within 12 months after the date this authorization is signed, as well as past information.
THIS  BOX   TO  BE  COMPLETED      BY  SSA/DDS     (as needed).  Additional  information to identify the
physicians, psychologists,  etc.) including mental        subject (e.g., other names  used), the specific source,  or the material to be disclosed:
health, correctional, addiction treatment, and  VA
health care facilities
• All educational sources  (schools, teachers,  records
administrators, counselors,  etc.)
• Social workers/rehabilitation counselors
• Consulting examiners   used  by SSA
• Employers,  insurance  companies,   workers'
compensation   programs
• Others who  may   know  about my  condition  (family,
neighbors,  friends, public officials)
WHOM              The  Social Security  Administration    and  to the State  agency   authorized  to process   my  case  (usually called "disability determination
services"), including  contract  copy  services,  and  doctors  or other  professionals   consulted   during   the process.  [Also, for international
claims, to the U.S. Department   of State Foreign  Service Post.]
PURPOSE              Determining   my  eligibility for benefits, including looking at the combined  effect of any impairments   that by themselves  would  not meet  SSA's
definition of disability; and whether I can manage  such  benefits.
Determining   whether  I am capable   of managing    benefits  ONLY   (check  only if this applies)
EXPIRES    WHEN       This authorization is good  for 12 months  from the date  signed (below  my  signature).
• I authorize the use of a copy (including electronic copy)  of this form for the disclosure of the information described above.
• I understand that there are some   circumstances   in which this information may  be  redisclosed to other parties (see page  2 for details).
• I may write to SSA  and my  sources  to revoke  this authorization at any time (see page  2 for details).
This general and special authorization to disclose was developed to comply with the provisions regarding disclosure of medical, educational, and other information under P.L. 104-191 ("HIPAA"); 45 CFR parts 160 and 164; 42 U.S. Code section 290dd-2; 42 CFR part 2; 38 U.S. Code section 7332; 38 CFR 1.475; 20 U.S. Code section 1232g ("FERPA"); 34 CFR parts 99 and 300; and State law.
