In compliance with the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, the College is
prohibited from providing certain information from your student records to a third party, such as
information on grades, billing, financial aid (including scholarships, grants, work-study) and other
student record information.
This restriction applies, but is not limited, to your parents, your spouse, or a sponsor.
You may, at your discretion, grant the College permission to release information about your student
records to a third party by submitting a completed Student Consent to Release Education Records.
You must complete a separate form for each third party to whom you grant access to information on
your education records.
The specific information will be made available only if requested by the authorized third party.
The College does not automatically send information to a third party.
Submit your completed form to Registrar’s Office, at Cogswell College.
Please note that your authorization to release information has no expiration date; however, you may
revoke your authorization at any time by sending a written request to the same address.
NOTE: For the third party designee your name on this form, this release overrides all FERPA
directory suppression information that you have set up in your student record.
However, it is the College policy not to release certain aspects of the student records (e.g.,
registration, grades, GPA) over the phone or via email.
Student  Information
Peluso                           Lorraine                7952186
Last Name  (Student)           First Name               Student  Identification Number
750   Woodcrest      Dr                                  (231)832-5521
Address                                                 Telephone
Gaylord,   MI,  49735
City, State, ZIP/Postal Code
Perry                        Timothy               tperry@largo.com
Last Name                   First Name             Email Address
8520   W  Redwing    Dr  Franklin,  WI  53132       (989)728-9711
Address City, State, ZIP/Postal Code               Telephone
Grades/GPA, demographic, registration, student ID number, academic progress status, and/or
enrollment information Billing statements, charges, credits, payments, past due amounts, and/or
collection activity Financial aid awards, application data, disbursements, eligibility, and/or
financial aid satisfactory academic progress Judicial and Student Life records When the party named
above contacts Cogswell College, he/she will be asked to authenticate his/her identify by providing
at least one personal security question answer.
You, the student, should choose at least one personal security question and provide it to your third
party contact.
Do not choose a question that could easily be guessed.
If your third party contact is not able to correctly provide the correct answer to the personal
security question, Cogswell College will not release any information from your record.
If you forget or misplace your personal security question, Cogswell College can provide it to you by
sending it to your College email address or you may come to the Registrar’s Office on campus to make
changes or get a reminder.
