Disorder                                         Description
Adjustment   (Acute) Insomnia                    The  essential feature of this disorder is the presence of insomnia in association with an iden-
tifiable stressor, such as psychosocial,  physical, or environmental   disturbances. The  sleep
disturbance  has a relatively short duration (days-weeks)  and is expected to resolve when  the
stressor resolves.
Psychophysiological  Insomnia                    The  essential features of this disorder are heightened arousal and learned sleep-preventing as-
sociations. Arousal may  be physiological, cognitive, or emotional, and characterized by muscle
tension, “racing thoughts,” or heightened  awareness  of the environment.  Individuals typically
have  increased concern  about sleep difficulties and their consequences, leading to a “vicious
cycle” of arousal, poor sleep, and frustration.
Paradoxical  Insomnia                            The  essential feature of this disorder is a complaint of severe or nearly “total” insomnia that
greatly exceeds  objective evidence  of sleep disturbance and is not commensurate   with the re-
ported  degree of daytime  deficit. Although paradoxical insomnia  is best diagnosed  with con-
current PSG   and  self-reports, it can be presumptively diagnosed  on  clinical grounds alone.
To  some  extent, “misperception”   of the severity of sleep disturbance  may   characterize all
insomnia  disorders.
Idiopathic Insomnia                              The  essential feature of this disorder is a persistent complaint of insomnia with insidious on-
set during infancy  or early childhood and no  or few extended  periods of sustained remission.
Idiopathic insomnia  is not associated with specific precipitating or perpetuating factors.
Insomnia  Due  to Mental  Disorder               The  essential feature of this disorder is the occurrence of insomnia   that occurs exclusively
during  the course of a mental disorder, and is judged to be caused by that disorder. The insom-
nia is of sufficient severity to cause distress or to require separate treatment. This diagnosis is
not used  to explain insomnia that has a course independent  of the associated mental  disorder,
as is not routinely made   in individuals with the “usual”  severity of sleep symptoms   for an
associated  mental disorder.
Inadequate  Sleep Hygiene                        The  essential feature of this disorder is insomnia associated with voluntary sleep practices or
activities that are inconsistent with good sleep quality and daytime alertness. These practices
and  activities typically produce increased  arousal or directly interfere with sleep, and may
include  irregular sleep scheduling, use of alcohol, caffeine, or nicotine, or engaging in non-
sleep behaviors  in the sleep environment. Some  element  of poor sleep hygiene may  character-
ize individuals with other insomnia  disorders.
Insomnia  Due  to a Drug or Substance            The  essential feature of this disorder is sleep disruption due to use of a prescription medica-
tion, recreational drug, caffeine, alcohol, food, or environmental  toxin. Insomnia  may  occur
during  periods of use/exposure,  or during discontinuation.  When   the identified substance is
stopped,  and after discontinuation effects subside, the insomnia is expected to resolve or sub-
stantially improve.
Insomnia  Due  to Medical  Condition             The  essential feature of this disorder is insomnia  caused  by a  coexisting medical  disorder
or other physiological  factor. Although  insomnia  is commonly   associated  with many  medi-
cal conditions, this diagnosis  should be used  when  the insomnia   causes marked   distress or
warrants  separate clinical attention. This diagnosis is not used to explain insomnia that has a
course  independent  of the associated medical disorder, and is not routinely made in individu-
als with the “usual” severity of sleep symptoms   for an associated medical  disorder.
Insomnia  Not  Due  to Substance or Known        These  two  diagnoses are used  for insomnia disorders that cannot be classified elsewhere  but
Physiologic  Condition,  Unspecified;           are suspected  to be related to underlying mental disorders, psychological  factors, behaviors,
Physiologic  (Organic)  Insomnia,               medical  disorders, physiological states, or substance use or exposure. These  diagnoses  are
Unspecified                                     typically used  when  further evaluation is required to identify specific associated conditions,
The essential feature of this disorder is insomnia caused by a coexisting medical disorder or other
physiological factor.
Although insomnia is commonly associated with many medi- cal conditions, this diagnosis should be
used when the insomnia causes marked distress or warrants separate clinical attention.
This diagnosis is not used to explain insomnia that has a course independent of the associated
medical disorder, and is not routinely made in individu- als with the “usual” severity of sleep
symptoms for an associated medical disorder.
These two diagnoses are used for insomnia disorders that cannot be classified elsewhere but are
suspected to be related to underlying mental disorders, psychological factors, behaviors, medical
disorders, physiological states, or substance use or exposure.
These diagnoses are typically used when further evaluation is required to identify specific
associated conditions, or when the patient fails to meet criteria for a more specific disorder.
ability to sleep and the daytime consequences of poor sleep, dis- torted beliefs and attitudes about
the origins and meaning of the insomnia, maladaptive efforts to accommodate to the condition (e.g.,
schedule or lifestyle changes), and excessive time spent awake in bed.
The latter behavior is of particular significance in that it often is associated with “trying hard”
to fall asleep and growing frustration and tension in the face of wakefulness.
Thus, the bed becomes associated with a state of waking arousal as this conditioning paradigm
repeats itself night after night.
