Regarding Figure 4, it is obvious that with increase in mesh size or decrease in particle size,
surface roughness comes down and results in a finer surface.
Here again to ensure that graph 2 illustrates general behavior of abrasive particle mesh size, all
other conditions were examined and in just one condition a little deviation from regular behavior
had been observed.
In this case, possible reason for this happening could be increase in cutting edges by increase in
mesh number.
Besides, the greater the abrasive particles, the bigger their cutting edges are, so scratches made
by these bigger cutting edges are greater than smaller particles.
Therefore, smaller abrasive particles produce a better surface quality.
Finally, to examine effect of finishing time cycle, last set of experiments with the following
condition has been conducted: Magnetic field strength of 0.8T, abrasive particle mesh size of 400,
finishing cycles of 30, 45 and 60 minutes.
Results are shown in Figure 5.
been compared with the other possible conditions and there was no significant difference between
them but graph slope between these three points.
Here in the first part from 30 to 45 minutes, the possible reason could be increase abrasion time
and as a result, more peaks are removed.
Therefore, surface roughness in this region improves and there will be a finer surface than first.
However, in the second part from 45 to 60 minutes, excess abrasion time makes fine surface scratched
by continuing abrasion after removal of peaks.
However, this conclusion may not be completely true or even may not be the only reason, because
abrasive particles will be abraded themselves after such a long period of finishing.
Here this hypothesis appears that maybe, probable abrasive particle fracture due to smash through
finishing process makes them sharp again and these new sharp cutting edges even in smaller size,
continue abrasion and make surface ragged.
After investigating these parameters independently, it worth compare them together to get a general
layout form their behavior.
Figure 6 illustrates their effect on surface roughness in different conditions.
Table 1 shows the order of experiments that are shown in Figure 6.
Table  1: List of experiments.
Mesh       Mesh     Mesh
30 Minutes    45 Minutes        60 Minutes                                     0.2T    0.6T   1T
400        800      1200
#1
#2
#3
#4
#5
#6
#7
