Chloroquine       Options†             Sites of action
resistance*
Yes               Atovaquone-          Blood stage (suppressive) and liver
proguanil or         stage (causal)‡
doxycycline or       Blood stage (suppressive)
mefloquine§  or      Blood stage (suppressive)
primaquine||         Liver stage (causal) and blood stage¶
No                Chloroquine or       Blood stage (suppressive)
atovaquone-          Blood stage (suppressive) and liver
proguanil or         stage (causal)
doxycycline or       Blood stage (suppressive)
mefloquine  or       Blood stage (suppressive)
primaquine¶          Liver stage (causal) and blood stage**
Pvivaxhas been widely identified in Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and sporadic cases in other Asian
countries.
Many countries with both urban and rural malaria transmission may not have malaria risk in the most
frequently visited major cities.
†Equal efficacy; choice depends on traveller, itinerary, side-effects, individual choices, and
convenience.
‡Tafenoquine and atovaquone can act also on the liver stage; doxycycline, azithromycin, and
proguanil have limited activity in the liver stage.
§Not recommended for travelling to Thailand borders with Cambodia and Burma due to mefloquine
resistance.
||Need to check G6PD level before prescribing.
Sometimes used as terminal prophylaxis in travellers with prolonged stays in countries with P
vivaxor P ovale to eliminate the hypnozoite stage in the liver.
¶Primaquine has an effect on the liver-stage (primary schizont) of all four plasmodium species, and
the sexual blood stages of all four species but only the asexual blood stages of P vivaxbut not
Pfalciparum.
The estimated risk for a traveller acquiring malaria differs markedly from area to
area.2,36,37,45,46 This variability is a function of the intensity of transmission within the
various regions, the season of travel, and of the itinerary and type of travel.36,37 Ongoing malaria
transmission occurs in large areas of Central and South America, Hispaniola, Africa, the Indian
subcontinent, southeast Asia, the middle east, eastern Europe, and the south Pacific
islands.1,2,5,10,35,36,43,44 There has been a marked increased in tourism, immigration, and refugee,
student, and business travel to these malaria-endemic areas.25,30,47 International migration has
risen from 120 million in 1990 to 175 million in 2002.28 Non- immune individuals are particularly
susceptible to develop severe malaria if exposed to an infected mosquito, particularly in areas with
high levels of transmission.2,5,14,19,36,45,46 Some groups are at higher risk.
Immigrants to developed countries who are returning to homes and families in endemic countries
(visiting friends and relatives) are at much higher risk of acquiring malaria.24,30–33 Indeed, this
particular group of travellers is responsible for a high volume of international travellers and
experience excessive rates of travel-related morbidity including malaria and its.
