Sleep-inducing drugs (hypnotics) are medications specif- ically designed to induce sleepiness
directly after intake.
Optimal agents affect cognitive performance during this period while inducing minimal sleepiness in
the waking day after use.
An optimal hypnotic would have low tox- icity and addictive potential, as well a minimal side effect
profile (Oswald 1970).
Among the first hypnotics, and an agent still in use is chloral hydrate - the original “Mickey Finn”
- slipped into the drinks of unsuspecting marks for the purposes of criminal activity.
Unfortu- nately, this medication is difficult to use since the LD-50 (potentially fatal dose) is
quite close to the therapeutic dose.
In the years leading up to the 1970’s, rapidly acting barbiturates were commonly utilized for their
hypnotic effects.
Unfortunately, these medications, also drugs of abuse, had a significant danger of overdose and
contrib- uted to an era that was characterized in part by deaths due to overdoses of sleeping pills.
These medications and similar barbiturate-like medications [Methaqualone (Quaalude, Sopor)
Glutethimide (Doriden), Ethchlor- vynol (Placidyl), Methyprylon (Nodudar)] have limited availability
and are rarely used due to limited efficacy, cognitive effects, the potential for abuse and lethal
tox- icity associated with overdose (Oswald 1970).
Today their primary therapeutic uses include executions and fa- cilitated euthanasia (Lossignol
2008).
Most currently utilized hypnotics affect the widely dis- persed negative neurotransmitter GABA.
In the 1970’s benzodiazepines (GABA agonists) were first marketed as hypnotics.
Some of these agents had an extremely short duration of action [Triazolam (Halcion)].
While this agent-induced minimal next day somnolence, use was as- sociated with daytime memory
impairment, particularly at higher dosages (Roehrs et al.
2000; Adam and Oswald.
1989).
In the 1990’s newer agents were developed and marketed that had selective effects on GABA receptors
in- cluding Zolpidem (Ambien), Zaleplon (Sonata), Eszopi- clone (Estorra) and Indiplon.
While all hypnotics have abuse potential for individuals with addictive histories and personalities,
these agents have been noted to have min- imal additive potential (Hajak et al.
2003).
These agents are less likely to have deleterious side effects than most OTC treatments for insomnia,
however, with increased use, more side effects including next effects on driving have been reported.
This effect as well as next day re- bound insomnia has particularly been reported for higher doses
of zolpidem (Verster et al.
2002).
In many cases, MVA’s occurred in the period of somnolence and cogni- tive impairment during the
first few hours after ingestion.
Comparatively normal results on psychomotor tests can be obtained 3.25 h.
after zaleplon ingestion and 6.25 h.  after zopiclone ingestion (Paul et al.  2003).
While these agents have excellent efficacy with minimal side effects, at higher doses these agents
can exhibit benzodiazepine-like effects.
Idiosyncratic reactions of persistent daytime som- nolence and/or memory loss have been reported.
Some patients will report next day sedation after the nighttime use of these agents, as well as
demonstrate an increased error rate in driving tests (Verster et al.
2007).
Such infor- mation was forthcoming only after these drugs became generic and widely utilized in
clinical practice.
Most sedat- ing drugs if adopted into such widespread use would also be at least as likely to
demonstrate epidemiological effects on MVA’s and MVA associated deaths.
In the elderly, chronic use of sedating drugs (particularly those with anti-cholinergic side
effects) can be associated with an increased risk for falls, and confusion (American Geriatrics
Society 2015).
Reported next day sleepiness and other side effects associated with hypnotic use are summarized in
Table 3.
The newer GABA-effective hypnotics are the only medications with demonstrated effectiveness in
treating chronic insomnia (NIH State of the Science Conference.
Drug  & Class                      1/2 Life        Next Day  Sleepiness [Clinical Trials]               Toxicity And/Or Significant Side Effects
Short acting gaba  agonist         1–2 HR.         Anecdotal  and per survey                            Antegrade  Amnesia,  Confusion  At Higher Dose
- triazolem                                        [placebo
Equivalent]
GABA  selective agents             1 HR.           [Placebo                                             No consistent reports
- zaleplon                                         Equivalent]                                          [not in widespread use]
Zolpidem                           1.5 HR.         Anecdotal  [placebo                                  Symptomatic
Equivalent]                                          Parasomnias,
Per survey when  dosed  outside                      Next night rebound  insomnia
pharmacodynamic    profile and in the elderly
Eszopiclone                        6 HR.           Anecdotal                                            Possible Parasomnia  Associations
[placebo                                             [Agent Not  In Widespread  Generic Use]
Equivalent]
