Anxiety  Prior to   Anxiety During      Change      Calming    Clear                                      Symptoms     During    Side    Other Prescription
Patients      Procedure          Procedure        in Anxiety    Effect    Mind     Symptoms    Prior to Procedure         Procedure        Effects      Anxiolytic
D             10                  1               -9         Yes       Yes       Dry Mouth  1, Tachycardia 1,        Numbness   1        No             No
Short Breath 1, Headache   1
Dry Mouth  1, Nausea  1,
E              7                  3               -4         Yes       Yes                                                               No         Lorazepam
Trembling  1
Tachycardia  1, Headache  1,
F              4                  1               -3         Yes       Yes               Trembling  1                                    No             No
G              8                  6               -2         Yes       Yes       Dry Mouth  1, Tachycardia  1        Numbness   1        No         Alprazolam
Dry Mouth  3,
Dry Mouth  3, Tachycardia 1,       Tachycardia  2,
H              7                  5               -2         Yes       Yes    Sweating  2, Nausea  2, Numbness   Sweating  1, Nausea     No         Alprazolam
3, Short Breath 2, Headache  2,    1, Numbness   2,
Trembling  1               Short Breath 1,
Headache   1
Dry Mouth  1, Nausea  1,
I              2                  0               -2         Yes       Yes        Numbness   1, Headache   1                             No         Duloxetine
J              5                  6               1          Yes       Yes       Dry Mouth  1, Tachycardia 1,        Dry Mouth  2,       No          Sertraline
Sweating 1, Numbness   1         Tachycardia  1
Dry Mouth  2,
Dry Mouth  3, Tachycardia 1,       Tachycardia  2,
K              6                  7               1           No       Yes                Nausea  1,                  Nausea  1,         No             No
Short Breath 1, Trembling  2       Short Breath 1,
Trembling  1
Ave  or %        6.13               3.63             -2.50      87.5%     100%                                                               0%           62.5%
Anxiety on a 10-point scale (10 is severe); Symptoms on a 0 – 3 point scale (0 none, 1 mild, 2 moderate, 3 severe). Patients D, E, F, G, H, and I were responders; Patients
J and K were  non-responders.
that likely affects anxiety/mood symptoms via the M2 and/or M1 receptors of the CNS [19].
Scopolamine was known over a century ago to produce a calming effect in psychiatric patients [20],
although this property is not well known today among medical providers.
There is clinical evidence that other antimuscarinic agents (e.g., promethazine), can also provide
some anxiolytic benefit [6].
Beta blockers and antimuscarinic agents are included in the PanX® combinations not only for
pharmacologic targeting of the sympathetic beta-1 and parasympathetic M2/M1 receptors, but also in
view of historic safety.
Both classes of drugs have been used in millions of patients over five decades and are known to be
safe.
Neither class is addictive.
In addition, the high prevalence of use strongly suggests that both classes of medicines have been
coincidentally and/or concurrently used in the same patient(s) as separate prescriptions and/or OTC
drugs, for instance a prescription beta blocker for hypertension and a prescription or OTC
antimuscarinic agent for motion sickness, nausea, or vomiting.
Even with high coincident and/or concurrent use, there is no evidence in the population of producing
side effects or drug-drug interactions that extend beyond those inherent within either of the
monotherapies.
Prior to this open label study, case series resulting from physician- sponsored studies of
compounded atenolol - scopolamine provided initial evidence of effectiveness in the PRN treatment of
anxiety.
Three patients diagnosed with PTSD, who experienced acute anxiety episodes, were treated effectively
by a psychiatrist [7-9].
In addition, three patients with acute anxiety symptoms under the care of pain management physicians
were treated successfully [10].
In the present physician-sponsored open label study we document a trial of a compounded combination
drug regarding anxiolytic efficacy and with no side effects in eight adult patients.
The drug combo produced a fast-acting and beneficial calming effect in 6 of 8 patients, who were
deemed as responders.
None of the patients described any side effects, and there was no evidence of impairment of
cognition.
One can reasonably assert that this beneficial anxiolytic effect might have been enhanced even
further under three study design conditions.
First, if the inclusion criteria had required each patient to have a high anxiety score prior to the
procedure, for instance a minimum of 7 points (with 10 as the maximum), there would have been a
greater potential for a difference pre-treatment vs.
during the procedure.
The six responders had a baseline average of 6.3 points, so there was room for improvement.
Of the six responders, two subjects had low baseline anxiety scores (i.e., patient F at 4 points and
patient I at 2 points).
A higher baseline inclusion parameter could have increased the differential prior to vs.
during the EMG procedure.
Second, there might not have been a sufficiently long waiting period between the drug administration
and the procedure.
One can reasonably assert that if the time interval between dosing and the procedure was increased
to a minimum of 30 minutes or more (from the 10 – 20 minutes), the percentage of responders and the
magnitude of the response could have been greater.
However, it should be noted that often in a clinic time-is-of-the-essence between the patient’s
initial assessment by the medical provider and the subsequent medical procedure.
Some medical providers are willing to pre-treat an anxious patient, typically with an oral
benzodiazepine either swallowed intact or pre-dissolved in water, and then have him/her wait (e.g.,
30 + min.) for an anxiolytic effect to be acknowledged by the patient.
But, some physicians and dentists might be under time constraints or might not be willing to oblige
the patient this waiting period.
This would not be an obstacle if either the drug has a rapid onset of effect or the patient were to
pre-treat themselves immediately prior to arrival at the physician’s office, for instance 30-60
minutes in advance.
Even under the conditions of this study that the authors consider might have been sub-optimal, this
drug combo delivered by the oral mucosal route provided a rapid onset effect as a PRN medication.
This anxiolytic benefit may be useful in treating anticipatory anxiety either in-office or prior to
arrival.
There is a third limitation to this study to consider.
The compounded medicine contained 25 mg of atenolol and 0.2 mg of scopolamine HBr.
