My child's participation in Bricks 4 Kidz® programs is voluntary.
I understand that the selected activities may involve accidental injury and hereby voluntarily
assume such risks.
Knowing these risks, I want my child to participate in this activity.
I (on behalf of my child) hereby assume the risk, and hereby waive, release, and discharge Bricks 4
Kidz®, its officers, employees, activity instructors and assistants, and all officers and employees
of the school or community center sites where said activity will take place, for any and all claims
for damages for personal injuries, or claims for damages to property, which my child or my child's
heirs, assigns, executors or administrators may have or which may accrue to my child's participation
in this activity.
I have read the above and understand important legal rights are being waived.
(Optional) I consent to Bricks 4 Kidz® use of any photographs or video recording that are taken of
my child while participating in the camp activity for use in Bricks 4 Kidz® brochures and program
materials that are distributed both as printed document and on the internet.
No payment will be made for use of these photographs and/or videos.
Your child’s name would never be used in connection with these images.
q   Yes q   No                                                Signature (required)                     Date
Does  the student have  any allergies or medical condition?  q    Yes   q     No  If yes, describe:
Emergency   Contact  First Name:                              Emergency   Contact  Last Name:
Emergency   Contact  Phone   Numbers:
In the event of an emergency,  we  will attempt to contact you as well as 911 Paramedics.
Child’s Medical  Insurer:                                  Child’s  Medical ID/Insurance  Number:
I authorize Bricks 4 Kidz® staff to arrange transportation in case of accident or acute illness and
to arrange for possible emergency medical and, or surgical care at the hospital listed above.
It is understood that an effort will be made to notify me at the above phone numbers.
If above such action is taken, and it is impossible to locate me or the above named, the uninsured
responsibility and expense of this service will be accepted by me.
The  following people are authorized to            Full Name                    Phone Number
pick up my  child from Bricks 4 Kidz®:
Full Name                   Phone  Number                     Full Name                    Phone Number
