David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science, University of Waterloo
Waterloo, ON, Canada
keshav@uwaterloo.ca
Researchers spend a great deal of time reading research pa- pers.
However, this skill is rarely taught, leading to much wasted effort.
This article outlines a practical and efficient three-pass method for reading research papers.
I also de- scribe how to use this method to do a literature survey.
Categories and Subject Descriptors: A.1 [Introductory and Survey].
Researchers must read papers for several reasons: to re- view them for a conference or a class, to
keep current in their field, or for a literature survey of a new field.
A typi- cal researcher will likely spend hundreds of hours every year reading papers.
The key idea is that you should read the paper in up to three passes, instead of starting at the
beginning and plow- ing your way to the end.
Each pass accomplishes specific goals and builds upon the previous pass: The first pass gives you a
general idea about the paper.
The second pass lets you grasp the paper’s content, but not its details.
The third pass helps you understand the paper in depth.
1.  Category: What type of paper is this.  A measure- ment paper.  An analysis of an existing system.
A description of a research prototype.  2.  Context: Which other papers is it related to.
Which theoretical bases were used to analyze the problem.
Using this information, you may choose not to read fur- ther.
This could be because the paper doesn’t interest you, or you don’t know enough about the area to
understand the paper, or that the authors make invalid assumptions.
The first pass is adequate for papers that aren’t in your research area, but may someday prove
relevant.
Incidentally, when you write a paper, you can expect most reviewers (and readers) to make only one
pass over it.
Take care to choose coherent section and sub-section titles and to write concise and comprehensive
abstracts.
If a reviewer cannot understand the gist after one pass, the paper will likely be rejected; if a
reader cannot understand the high- lights of the paper after five minutes, the paper will likely
never be read.
The first pass is a quick scan to get a bird’s-eye view of the paper.
You can also decide whether you need to do any more passes.
This pass should take about five to ten minutes and consists of the following steps:.
1.  Look carefully at the figures, diagrams and other illus- trations in the paper.
Pay special attention to graphs.  Are the axes properly labeled.
Are results shown with error bars, so that conclusions are statistically sig- nificant.
Common mistakes like these will separate rushed, shoddy work from the truly excellent.
