The owner of the above-referenced policy hereby appoints the below-named individual(s) as limited
attorney-in-fact to: 1) transfer policy values among the available investment divisions; 2) change
contribution allocations; and 3) make changes to instructions, initiate, or cease participation in
the Dollar Cost Averaging and Automatic Rebalancing programs.
This authorization is subject to the following:.
2.
The owner and the limited attorney-in-fact, their heirs, legal representatives, their successors and
assigns each release the Company from any liability for acting in reliance upon any instruction
given pursuant to this authorization; and they jointly and severally agree to indemnify the Company
against any claim, liability or expense, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of any
action or inaction made in reliance upon such instructions.
3.
The Company or the limited attorney-in-fact may cease to honor this authorization by sending written
notice to the owner and each other at the most recent address listed in their file.
The owner may revoke this authorization by sending written notice of such revocation to the Company
at the address shown above, which will be effective only when received and recorded by the Company.
4.
A separate limited power of attorney must be completed for each policy over which such authorization
is desired to be given.
Authorization may be granted only to specified individuals, not to corporate or partnership
entities.
5.
This limited power of attorney/authorization is personal to the holder and may not be delegated to
any other person or organization.
The Company will not accept instructions from any person or organization purporting to be authorized
by the limited attorney-in-fact.
Further, the limited attorney-in-fact agrees to follow the Company’s instructions and procedures and
shall be subject to all provisions of the policy and the offering prospectus for making such
transfers.

Owner   Signature                                                                                                          Date
Owner   Name   (Please  print.)                                                                                                     Phone   (          )

Owner   Signature                                                                                                          Date
Owner   Name   (Please  print.)                                                                                                     Phone   (          )
