This information is being distributed to you for personal reference.
This information is intended to serve only as a general reference resource and is not intended to
address every aspect of a clinical situation.
Physicians and patients should not rely on this information in making health care decisions.
Physicians and patients must exercise their independent clinical discretion and judgment in
determining care.
Each benefit plan contains its own specific CD Provisions for coverage, limitations, and exclusions
as stated in the Member’s Evidence of Coverage (EOC)/Summary of Benefits (SB).
If there is a discrepancy between this policy and the member’s EOC/SB, the member’s EOC/SB provision
will govern.
The information contained in this document is believed to be current as of the date noted.
The benefit information in this Coverage Summary is based on existing national coverage policy,
however, Local Coverage Determinations (LCDs) may exist and compliance with these policies is
required where applicable.
There are instances where this document may direct readers to a UnitedHealthcare Commercial Medical
Policy, Medical Benefit Drug Policy, and/or Coverage Determination Guideline (CDG).
In the absence of a Medicare National Coverage Determination (NCD), Local Coverage Determination
(LCD), or other Medicare coverage guidance, CMS allows a Medicare Advantage Organization (MAO) to
create its own coverage determinations, using objective evidence-based rationale relying on
authoritative evidence (Medicare IOM Pub.
No.  100-16, Ch.  4, §90.5).
INDEX    TO   COVERAGE        SUMMARY
I.    COVERAGE
1.   Chemotherapy,    Immunotherapy     and  Hormonal   Agents
2.   Off-label  Use  of Drugs  and Biological  in an Anti-Cancer   Chemotherapeutic    Regimen
3.   National  Cancer  Institute (NCI)  Designated   “Group  C”  Drugs
4.   Examples    of Not Reasonable   and  Necessary
5.   Medicare   Approved   Clinical  Trials [Oxaliplatin (Eloxatin® ), Irinotecan (Camptosar®   ),
Cetuximab    (Erbitux® ) and Bevacizumab    (Avastin®  )]
6.   Examples    of chemotherapy   services include  but are not limited to:
a.   Oral  Anti-cancer  Drugs
b.   Anti-nausea   (anti-emetic) drugs
c.   Aprepitant
d.   Abarelix
e.   Inpatient  or outpatient oncology  services
f.   Osmotic   Blood  Brain  Barrier Disruption  (BBBD)
g.   Scalp  Hypothermia    during Chemotherapy
h.   Local  Hyperthermia
