As you know if you ever checked into a hotel or rented a car, the first thing you are asked for is a
credit card, which is imprinted and later used to pay your bill.
This is an advantage for both you and the hotel or car rental company since it makes checkout
easier, faster and more efficient.
CCSD would like to make it simple for you to pay any services that are your responsibility after
your insurance company processes your claim.
We simply maintain your Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, Flex plan or checking account
information on file to satisfy any patient responsibilities such as deductibles, co-insurance or
other balances.
If you are not aware of your insurance benefits, including your deductible and co-insurance amounts,
please contact your carrier.
If you have a high deductible, it is recommended that you provide a credit card as opposed to a
debit card or check.
We will do everything possible to maximize your insurance benefits.
This policy will be advantageous to you since you will no longer have to write and mail us a check
for your balances.
This also will have a positive effect on the environment.
This payment process will not compromise your ability to dispute a charge or question your insurance
company’s determination of payment.
As we continue to strive to protect the security of your personal information, your credit card
information is encrypted to CCSD employees.
Your credit card information is stored in a high-security system that goes beyond Payment Cared
Industry (PCI) compliance using Point-to-Point Encryption (P2PE) which involves a combination of
secure devices, applications, and processes that encrypts the card data from the first interaction
at the point of sale up until the data reaches the secure payment processing environment.
include another   form  of payment    on file.
Credit Card Information:
Name   of Patient:     Doyle                                                     Fidela
Last                                                      First                                                     MI
Name   of Cardholder:  Boyer                                                     Walter
Last                                                      First                                                     MI
Card Type:                   Visa           MC          Amex         Discover   Expiration Date: 03        / 23       CVV#:  553
Credit Card Number   (last four numbers only):   4                9              3            0
Billing Address (Required): 7998 Chase Cir APT 1 Arvada, CO 80003, USA
Phone  Number:   (502) 434-0447 x317
Authorized  Signature:                                                                  Date:  03 01 2020
I authorize Chicago Cosmetic Surgery and Dermatology, LLC (CCSD) to securely maintain my credit card
account information and to charge my account in full for any outstanding balances after my insurance
carrier has processed my claim(s).
I agree to inform CCSD of any changes regarding my credit card account number and/or expiration
date.
This authorization will remain in effect until revoking in writing by the cardholder which will
apply to future dates of service only.
There will be at $35.00 fee for non-sufficient funds.
