□ Structured English Immersion (SEI): Students who score at less than reasonable fluency are placed
in a SEI program setting and are taught overwhelmingly in English, but may be supported in the
students’ primary language.
English learners receive instruction in ELD and other core subjects through effective teaching
strategies from trained and authorized teachers using district-adopted textbooks and supplementary
instructional materials.
Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level content standards.
English Language Mainstream (ELM): Students who score at reasonable fluency in English are placed in
an ELM program setting in a classroom.
English learners receive instruction in ELD and other core subjects through effective teaching
strategies from trained and authorized teachers using district- adopted textbooks and supplementary
instructional materials.
Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level standards.
Students continue to receive additional and appropriate instruction in order to make academic
progress and meet the requirements to be reclassified as fluent English proficient (FEP).
□ Newcomer Program (Secondary): Students at the beginning levels of English proficiency (CELDT 1 and
2) receive intensive ELD and content instruction through ELD, sheltered instruction, bilingual or
native literacy designs.
Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level standards.
With the goal of English Proficiency, students may be enrolled for one to three semesters for
multiple periods per day in order to make progress in the acquisition of English and transition
successfully to an SEI or ELM setting.
□ Alternative Program (Alt): Transitional Bilingual Education: Students with an approved Parental
Exception Waiver* receive core instruction initially through their primary language and instruction
in ELD from trained and authorized teachers using district-adopted textbooks and supplementary
instructional materials.
Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level standards.
With the goal of English Proficiency, in addition to mastery of core content, the language in which
academic subjects are taught gradually shifts from students’ first language to English in order to
make academic progress and meet the requirements to be reclassified as fluent English proficient
(FEP).
Parents may request specific program details for the alternative program at each school site.
Required  Criteria (Education Code 313[d])                               TTUSD  Criteria
English Language Proficiency Assessment                     Early Advanced or Advanced  on  overall and
(CELDT)                                           no subtest lower than  Early Advanced (K-5), Intermediate (6-12)
Comparison   of Performance  in Basic Skills                           Basic on CST  ELA test
Parental Opinion and  Consultation                               Parental opinion and  consultation
Teacher  Evaluation of Curriculum Mastery                 Grades  K-5 Basic “3” in Language Arts and Math
Grades  6-12 C or better in English and Math
