Analyzing the kinds of research that typically re- ceive more media attention is vital to
understanding issues such as the “science of science communication” (National Academies of Sciences,
Engineering, and Medicine 2017), patterns of misinformation, and the “cycle of hype.” We track the
coverage of 91,997 scientific articles published in 2016 across various disciplines, publishers, and
social and traditional media, Altmetric.
We approach the problem as one of ranking each day’s, or week’s, papers by their likely level of
media attention, us- ing the learning-to-rank model lambdaMART (Burges 2010).
We find that ngram features from the title, abstract and press release significantly improve
News media are an important source of scientific informa- tion for the public in domains such as
health, medicine, and climate change research, making the accurate communica- tion of findings – and
Holtzman 2002; Boykoff and Boykoff 2004; Brechman, Lee, and Cappella 2009).
academic research findings move along and through a chain of translation-oriented intermediaries,
Journalists’ internal processes of selection and framing news are very significant, as they are an
antecedent and structural factor that affects all subsequent issues of public attention.
difficult task, journalists may use simple heuristics to determine whether research is novel and of
high quality and impact, such as inspecting the name of the journal and the article subjects.
for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org).
on a subset of the press releases they read each day, either found on a press release aggregation
website such as Eu- rekAlert.
provides insight into how journalists judge the newsworthiness of different content, uncovering
their biases and preferences, and helps shed light on high-profile issues being actively debated
relating to the “science of science communication” (National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Scholars who have studied the decision-making of jour- nalists in terms of story selection and
social validation (Donsbach 2004).
In the realm of science, practices such as embargoing of scholarly findings and the attendant
Research has suggested that jour- nalists seldom choose to report on scientific studies outside of
the domains of health and medicine (Suleski and Ibaraki 2009).
science communication, with the cycle of hype sometimes begin- ning with researchers themselves
using exaggerated terms such as “breakthrough” in press materials and public an- nouncements (Bubela
2009).
News reporting may then replicate the exaggerations found in such communi- cations materials (Sumner
et al.
2014).
Further, news sto- ries, particularly those produced by elite outlets, may influ- ence the prestige
of, and citations to, scientific research, fu- eling a hype cycle that is increasingly coming under
scrutiny in the research and media communities (Kiernan 2003a; Caulfield et al.
2016).
Using the metadata supplied by Altmetric,1 we are able to find and crawl thousands of scientific
Previous work started their investigations from a small number of journals, a small number of
(Sulaiman, Rahman, & Dzulkifli, 2008).
Under a Thailand 4.0 vision, critical thinking skills are stated to be a key pillar among the goals
for a new, knowledge-based economy (Jones & Pimdee, 2017).
analytical skills, of 6,235 students in ten Thai provinces, the average final score was just 36.5%,
Over 2,500 years ago Plato in his discussions of logic indicated that critical thinking is the tool
Nearly 2,500 years later, scholars and educators are still discussing the mechanisms, importance,
and outcomes of critical thinking skills (or lack thereof).
Contemporary evidence of the importance of critical thinking skills for employment has been provided
from the National Association of Colleges and Employers [NACE] (2016) which indicated that critical
thinking/problem-solving skills were ranked most important by the 144 surveyed employers (Table 1).
This is also consistent with the research results obtained by Bassham, Irwin, Nardone, and Wallace
thinking skills which, in their turn, lead to higher-order thinking.
This is also consistent with (Costa & Kallick, 2014) who stated that critical thinking skills are
consistently included in all the lists of essentials behind college and career readiness (Kraisuth &
(the “Agent”) to make monthly electronic fund transfers via the Automated Clearing House (“ACH”)
retiree premium contribution by electronically transferring funds from Customer’s bank account
If a scheduled transfer date falls on a weekend or legal bank holiday, the withdrawal will occur on
the following business day.
In the event of an error, Customer will contact its bank and Agent immediately upon receipt of its
This authorization allows Agent to adjust the amount drafted from Customer’s bank account to
accommodate these adjustments.
writing, ten (10) business days prior to the draft date, and by notifying its financial institution.
effect and by notifying its financial institution according to the procedures described in the
financial institution’s disclosure.
If the bank returns a transfer unpaid, Agent shall have the right to assess an administrative fee.
If the required payment becomes delinquent, Customer’s automatic payment option may, in Agent’s sole
Agent reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to cancel this agreement for cause, which may
include but not be limited to any of the following events:.
ing sleep, or waking up too early, or sleep that is chronically nonrestorative or poor in quality.
B.  The above sleep difficulty occurs despite adequate opportunity and circumstances for sleep.  C.
Social or vocational dysfunction or poor school performance; 4.
Mood disturbance or irritability; 5.  Daytime sleepiness; 6.
Motivation, energy, or initiative reduction; 7.
Proneness for errors/accidents at work or while driving; 8.
Tension, headaches, or gastrointestinal symptoms in re- sponse to sleep loss; and 9.
recommendations for those areas not covered by AASM practice parameters.
Recommendations were generated by panel members and discussed by all.
To min- imize individual expert bias, the group anonymously voted and rated consensus
Consensus was defined when all experts rated a recommendation 8 or 9.
If consensus was not evident after the first vote, the consensus recommendations were discussed
attained to include or exclude a recommendation.
AASM practice parameter papers are based on evidence- based review and grading of literature, often
addressing a spe- cific issue or topic.
and man- agement.
They should not, however, be considered exhaustive, inclusive of all available methods of care, or
diagnostic tools, accessible.
The AASM expects this clinical guideline to have an im- pact on professional behavior and patient
revised as new information becomes available.
“Insomnia” has been used in different contexts to refer to either a symptom or a specific disorder.
In this guideline, an insomnia disorder is defined as a subjective report of difficulty with sleep
Except where otherwise noted, the word “insomnia” refers to an insomnia disorder in this guideline.
systems.
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders, 2nd Edition (ICSD-2) is used as the basis for
group, lists twelve specific in- somnia disorders (Table 3).
ICSD-2 delineates both general diagnostic criteria that apply to all insomnia disorders, as well as
Insomnia complaints may also occur in asso- ciation with comorbid disorders or other sleep disorder
related movement disorders.
Insomnia symptoms occur in approximately 33% to 50% of the adult population; insomnia symptoms with
dis- tress or impairment (i.e., general insomnia disorder) in 10% to 15%; and specific insomnia
disorders in 5% to 10%.10 Consis- tent risk factors for insomnia include increasing age, female sex,
unemployment and lower socio- economic status.
relationship between insomnia and psychiatric disorders appears to be bidirectional; several studies
have also.
In areas where malaria is prevalent, clinical diagnosis usually results in all patients with fever
and no apparent other cause being treated for malaria.
Considerable overlap exists between the signs and.
toms other than fever or history of fever have met with only minimal success (17).
emergency action plan.
(C) Along with directly observed signs of potential concussion, if video review demonstrates
the athlete should be immediately removed from participation for evaluation.35–37 A healthcare
professional familiar with the athlete is best suited to detect subtle changes in the athlete’s
personality or test performance that may suggest concussion.
recommended.38 Concussion assessment should be performed in a distraction-free environ- ment with
If it is clear an athlete has an SRC, additional sideline testing can be discontinued.
Sport-specific rules may not allow adequate time for evaluation, and modifying these rules remains
an area for improvement within the governing bodies of some sports.
event or athlete behaviour.
evaluated, as well as speech patterns and how the athlete appears to be processing information.
Cervical palpation and range of motion (ROM) are also typically performed to assess for other.
All information on the form must be complete (fully filled in), accurate, and legible.
NAL reserves the right to refuse to process a payment if the form is incomplete, if there are errors
All payments will be entered as paid on the date on which they are received.
Your receipt will be emailed to the address provided.
according to the terms outlined above.
This authorization is for the payment described above, for the amount indicated above only, and is
valid for one time use only.
with my credit card company; so long as the transaction corresponds to the terms indicated in this
form.
Health.
the date this Order was served or actually received.
Any affected party has the right to appear at said hearing.
Failure to comply with this order may result in additional penalties as permitted by law, including
order(s) issued pursuant to any such complaint.
receita e laudo médico, com a devida indicação e validade máxima de doze meses, por meio de original
na primeira solicitação e cópia nas demais, admitindo-se cópia também quando se tratar de
medicamento de uso controlado, inclusive na primeira solicitação; 2 - Nota fiscal, em primeira via e
no original, sem rasuras, emitida em nome do respectivo beneficiário; 3 - Declaração do médico
reembolsados se inexistir similar nacional, ou, ainda, quando adquiridos a preços iguais ou
inferiores a seu similar nacional, ou ainda, mesmo que exista similar nacional, caso sejam
imprescindíveis às necessidades do paciente, após análise da Coordenadoria de Saúde.
Apenas> Transferir Arquivos juntamente com uma fotocópia de um documento de identificação com uma
foto do titular, uma fotocópia de frente e verso do cartão de crédito) .
Coelho.
prostate cancer primarily affects older men in whom the disease has less impact on indirect costs,
While it is also important to consider end-of-life costs associated with prostate cancer, there are
limited end-of-life cost data in the literature (e.g.
the costs of palliative care, nursing homes, etc.).
Furthermore, investigating the impact of the physical and mental suffering both patients and
relatives endure during prostate cancer.
MarketScan includes private sector health benefits claims and enrollment data from approximately 100
payers.
The dataset contains more than 35 million commercially insured lives.
The dataset consists of person-specific clinical utilization, expenditures and enrollment across
employers, health plans, and government and public organizations.
The MarketScan databases link paid claims and encounter data to detailed patient demographic
information across sites and types of providers over time.
We used years 2010-2014 for this analysis.
DIAGNOSIS DATE.
Cancer patients were excluded from the study if they met any of the following conditions:.
Cancer patients were identified as individuals with cancer ICD-9 codes in any position on qualified
claims, which are described in the table below.
Patients were required to have a cancer ICD-9 code on one inpatient, or one observation, or two or
necessarily both) was incurred in 2011.
below:.
sem prejuízo algum.
de pesquisa será submetido para análise de um Comitê de Ética em Pesquisa.
school.
Your child needs to quarantine at home for 14 days after their last exposure to the individual who
His/her estimated return to school after quarantine would be .
This date could change if your child develops symptoms of COVID-19 or tests positive for COVID-19.
If your child develops any of these symptoms, please notify his/her school and contact your child’s
doctor for evaluation and testing for COVID-19 infection.
Parents often have questions about testing their child after an exposure.
Testing is recommended if symptoms are present, but not recommended without symptoms.
A negative test does not release a student from quarantine or allow a return to in-person
instruction.
If parents want to test their child in the absence of symptoms, we encourage waiting until seven
days after exposure.
If their child has a negative result; the student will still need to quarantine 14 days from last
exposure.
This is because it could take up to 14 days for symptoms to appear.
await further instruction from public health.
patient annually on cancer medicines for all newly-diagnosed cancer patients, and the total
expenditure (Table 4.2).
In high- income countries, the analysis found that a budget threshold of 5% of the total health
expenditure would allow a spending of up to US$ 40 600 on cancer medicines per patient per year,
with a view to providing universal coverage.
for a select set of cancers, calculated based on the dosages recommended in clinical guidelines and
the prices of cancer medicines in India, South Africa, Australia and the USA.
and with different levels of price regulations.
The analysis found that the estimated treatment costs frequently exceeded the per-patient annual
on cancer medicines (alone).
US$ 71 000.
These examples suggest that, at current prices, universal coverage of cancer medicines (alone) will
greatly exceed 5% of total expenditure on health care.
for knowing and understanding the rules, regulations and policies on campus.
• A parking permit carries no guarantee or liability of the College to provide the holder at any
given time with a parking space and the College cannot accept any responsibility for damage to or
theft of any motor vehicle or its contents while parked on campus.
Complete each item on this form and print information.
You will be allowed to register one vehicle at no cost to you.
Please include payment of $24.45 should you opt to register a second vehicle.
Tis permit will allow you to park in any lot with the exceptions of service, reserved, and metered
parking privileges.
Print information, sign and return completed form to:.
Fica assegurado o reembolso nos limites das obrigações contratuais das despesas pelo beneficiário
com assistência odontológica, nos casos de urgência ou emergência, quando não for possível a
utilização dos serviços próprios, contratados, credenciados ou referenciados do plano e o acesso a
livre escolha de prestadores não participantes da rede credenciada.
4.
documentação adequada, sendo os valores reembolsados de acordo com a Tabela de Pro- cedimentos
Odontológicos praticada pela CAPESESP.
5.
devidamente preenchida e assinada pelo titular, no prazo máximo de 01 ano contado da realização do
evento ou da finalização do tratamento.
discriminação do nome do paciente atendido, os eventos realizados, seus respectivos valores
unitários ou totais e a data do atendimento.
6.  Identify the efflorescence.  Knowing the composition of efflorescing salts is sometimes of use.
Table 1, taken from Brownell’s report lists the most probable sources of efflorescing salts.
Commercial testing laboratories can use X-ray diffraction, petrographic analysis or chemical
analysis can, in some instances, determine both the type of salts present and their relative
quantity.
7.  Consider miscellaneous sources of water when all obvious sources have been eliminated.
pipes, faulty drains and condensation on heating or plumbing pipes.
of salts or moisture are identified (usually the latter), suitable corrections must be addressed.
Recommendations for the correction of water penetration in masonry walls are contained in Technical
Note 46.
weather, since this results in the availability of considerably more moisture which may bring more
Technical Note 20.
Special care should be exercised in cleaning new masonry, since improper procedures and errors can
A coating may prevent efflorescence from recurring by reducing the amount of water absorbed by an
exposed masonry surface.
However, applying a coating to brickwork that has a tendency to effloresce, without stopping the
degradation.
Known as cryptoflorescnece or subflorescence, salts that crystallize within masonry can develop
*MCP (cid:2) metacarpophalangeal; RF (cid:2) rheumatoid factor; ACPA (cid:2)
anti(cid:3)citrullinated protein antibody.
the odds of having rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with as opposed to without the respective feature
(e.g., weight of 1.5 for swelling of proximal interphalangeal [PIP] joints means that the odds of
having RA is 1.5-fold in patients with as opposed to patients without swelling of a PIP joint).
Phase 1.
The aim of Phase 1 was to identify the contributions of clinical and laboratory variables that in
patients with early undifferentiated synovitis.
Initiation of DMARD therapy was used as an indicator of the physician’s opinion that the patient was
at risk of developing persistent and/or erosive arthritis that we would currently consider to be RA.
Data on 3,115 patients from 9 early arthritis cohorts who were consid- ered not to have evidence of
Between July 2007 and November 2008 an expert working group developed an analysis strategy that
related an agreed- upon list of standardized clinical and laboratory vari- ables collected at
baseline to the initiation of DMARD treatment within the next 12 months.
MTX initiation was used as the gold standard for this purpose.
The analytical process aimed to identify the independent contribution of each variable on this list
and included univariate regression modeling, a subsequent principal components analysis, and a
multivariate regression model that included all identified components (25).
the odds ratios are shown in Table 1.
The purpose of this phase was to derive a clinician-based judgment on.
considered to be RA” (hereinafter referred to as “developing RA”).
They provided real-life case scenarios of patients with early undifferentiated inflammatory arthri-
tis representing low to high probability of developing RA.
A 2-day workshop was held in May 2009 in which domains (factors) and categories within those domains
When appropriate, these judgments were informed by the results of Phase 1 and other available
The relative importance or weights of these domains and their categories were determined by means of
The domains, categories, and weights derived during that initial process are shown in Table 2.
Objectives of Phase 3.
In Phase 3 the working group integrated the findings of the first 2 phases, refined the scoring
newly presenting patients with undifferentiated inflam- matory arthritis to permit identification of
those with a high probability of developing persistent and/or erosive RA.
Being intended for use with newly presenting patients, the scoring system should be robust enough
that it could be applied repeatedly during the early course of disease, such that a patient
identified as not classifiable as having definite RA at initial presentation might be classified as
tive.
However, the working group recognized that pa- tients may present for the first time with disease
Thus, although it was not the explicit charge of the working group to provide.
“Declaro, para os devidos fins, tendo sido aprovado na disciplina/área objeto de seleção de
Monitor, comprometendo-me a cumpri-las fielmente.”.
I hereby authorize the Green Mountain Higher Education Consortium (GMHEC) and its member
institutions, Champlain College, Middlebury College, and Saint Michael’s College (Consortium), to
process my payment via direct deposit into my bank account.
Association’s rules (NACHA).
For further information on these rules, please contact your financial institution.
I understand that the Consortium will reverse any payments made to my account in error.
I further understand that I will provide an email below in order to receive notification of
payments.
This authorization will remain in effect until I notify the Accounts Payable Office at ap@gmhec.org.
disease symptoms associated with DENV infection in the field, timely identification of US Service
Members infected with DENV provides for “rapid and appropriate patient management decisions” such as
Identification and diagnosis of DENV infection within Service Members has been done in the last 20
years with the use Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) technology.
The “Ruggedized” Advanced Pathogen Identification Device (RAPID) PCR platform.
Business & Industry to charge my credit card above MONTHLY for membership dues on the first business
day of each month; and as needed for other agreed upon purchases.
I understand that my information will be saved to file for future transactions on my account.
Dear Parent(s) or Guardian(s): In accordance with state and federal law, school districts in
California are required to annually assess the language proficiency of all students whose home
language is not English.
Your child has been given an annual California English Language Development Test (CELDT).
Each year, we are required by law to notify you of your child’s proficiency level in English.
Your child’s results are enclosed.
quesitos que devem ser avaliados, conforme descrito no Edital nº 01-CADETE PMPR-2020 (regulador do
dias da sua apresentação, sob pena de desclassificação no concurso.
3 - Para candidatos já submetidos à cirurgia refrativa, deverá também fazer e acompanhar o atestado,
a topografia de córnea e paquimetria.
que contemple todos os quesitos descritos no Edital nº 01-CADETE PMPR- 2020 (regulador do certame).
O exercício, por parte do paciente, deste seu direito, a partir do momento em que deixar o hospital,
diretamente relacionadas a esta alta.
e/ou responsável, o diagnóstico, suas condições clínicas, possibilidades terapêuticas e as
Assim:.
1.
Considerando o direito de recusar o atendimento ou procedimentos propostos para meu tratamento de
deixar as dependências do hospital, mesmo sabendo das possíveis consequências e riscos de tal
atitude; 2.
Considerando a alta a pedido não constitui ato que tenha sido indicado ou praticado pela equipe
médica, mas sim um ato livre e soberano da minha autonomia; 3.
o médico e a Instituição da responsabilidade por quaisquer consequências adversas à minha saúde
4.
Considerando que mesmo tendo o médico, com o apoio da equipe multiprofissional, explicado em
emitir receita, solicitação de exames e encaminhamento para outro estabelecimento;.
Applicants are eligible for Trainee membership status while in training.
Without a completed verification statement, your application cannot be presented for final approval.
contain Move 3.
None of them follow a strict M1–M2–M3 sequence.
The only sequence that is repeated is M1–M3, which occurs four times.
In summary, RAIs in The ESPecialist do not seem to follow a pattern in the organization of their
rhetorical moves although there seems to be a preference for the M1–M3 type.
(by announcing the present research and indicating the structure of the article, for example).
The ESPj RAIs, on the other hand, follow the pattern proposed by the CARS model more closely.
Among these, ESPj5, ESPj7 and ESPj8 show very little variation from the canonical sequence: ESPj5
contains a one-sentence Move 1 between a 7-sentence Move 2 and a 7-sentence Move 3 while ESPj7 and
ESPj8 each contain two instances of Move 2, establishing the niche in two separate installments.
With the exception of ESPj2, all the RAIs in this corpus contain a Move 2, and there was only one
instance (i.e., ESPj1) of Move 3-fronting.
ESPj1 did not contain a Move 1 either, being, overall, the introduction that was the most dissimilar
The findings reported above seem to suggest that there are important differences in the rhetorical
organi- zation of introductions in Brazilian Portuguese articles from The ESPecialist and articles
from English for Specific Purposes.
While the latter fits the proposed moves in the CARS model closely, the former has been shown to
vary from it somewhat.
It is worth noting that both journals specialize in the same subfield of Applied Linguistics, a
claim supported not only by the names of these journals, but also by the similar editorial policies
they hold (see Appendix C).
Even though English for Specific Purposes reaches a wider inter- national readership by being
published in English, the current academic lingua franca (Duszak & Lewkowicz, 2008), both journals
started publication in the same year and can, therefore, be considered to have a similar level of
In this sense, the distinction made by Samraj (2005) between established fields and emerging fields
of inquiry would not help explain the differences between the two sets of introductions analyzed in
this study.
It seems, thus, that the differences found would have to be attributed to
cross-linguistic/cross-cultural reasons.
The most striking difference between the BESP and the ESPj RAIs lies in the pervasive absence of
As mentioned above, Jogthong (2001) reported an absence of Move 2 in 45% of the Thai articles
Reembolso é o ressarcimento das despesas decorrentes dos atendimentos ocorridos na área de
abrangência geográfica da cobertura contratual sempre que não for possível a utilização dos serviços
de prestadores da rede credenciada de cada plano.
Para os planos que não possuem Livre Escolha (reembolso), os beneficiários deverão entrar em contato
com o SAC buscando uma alternativa de atendimento no município onde o serviço ou o procedimento for
demandado, desde que dentro da área de abrangência do Plano.
escolher qualquer prestador de serviços legalmente habilitado, que não sejam integrantes da rede
O beneficiário titular declara que as informações constantes no pedido de reembolso são verdadeiras,
tentativa de obter vantagem indevida, constitui fraude contra a Operadora, sujeito a perda do
direito ao reembolso, cancelamento do plano de saúde e implicações judiciais, além de que o fato
será imediatamente comunicado ao empregador (RH) e/ou representante legal da Pessoa Jurídica
As principais irregularidades não admitidas são: desdobramento de recibos; recibos de atendimento de
o beneficiário como pagador); recibos falsos, adul- terados ou rasurados.
Lembramos ainda que este rol não é taxativo, mas sim exemplificativo.
A Operadora reserva-se no direito de contatar o prestador de serviços, emitente do recibo, sempre
que julgar necessário, para comprovar e atestar a veracidade das informações.
Para receber o reembolso é obrigatória a apresentação deste formulário devidamente preenchido, assim
como a documentação exigida (check-list no verso) para cada tipo de serviço.
A análise da solicitação e o reembolso serão efetuados no prazo de 30 dias a partir da data do
recebimento da docu- mentação na Life Empresarial Saúde.
or by calling 541.736.4544.
registration.
Payment is collected at time of registration.
This can occur at Bob Keefer Center, on-line or over the phone.
Sintomas que apresentou: ( )febre ( )tosse ( )dor de garganta ( )dispnéia ( )outro Data do início
dos sintomas: ___/____/_______ Término: ___/___/_____ Data do afastamento do serviço: início
___/___/____ Término: ___/___/______ 03 03 1998 03 03 1999 03 03 1999 03 05 1999.
Porto Alegre.
Sleep-inducing drugs (hypnotics) are medications specif- ically designed to induce sleepiness
the waking day after use.
An optimal hypnotic would have low tox- icity and addictive potential, as well a minimal side effect
profile (Oswald 1970).
- slipped into the drinks of unsuspecting marks for the purposes of criminal activity.
quite close to the therapeutic dose.
hypnotic effects.
Unfortunately, these medications, also drugs of abuse, had a significant danger of overdose and
contrib- uted to an era that was characterized in part by deaths due to overdoses of sleeping pills.
These medications and similar barbiturate-like medications [Methaqualone (Quaalude, Sopor)
tox- icity associated with overdose (Oswald 1970).
Today their primary therapeutic uses include executions and fa- cilitated euthanasia (Lossignol
2008).
Most currently utilized hypnotics affect the widely dis- persed negative neurotransmitter GABA.
In the 1970’s benzodiazepines (GABA agonists) were first marketed as hypnotics.
Some of these agents had an extremely short duration of action [Triazolam (Halcion)].
impairment, particularly at higher dosages (Roehrs et al.
in- cluding Zolpidem (Ambien), Zaleplon (Sonata), Eszopi- clone (Estorra) and Indiplon.
these agents have been noted to have min- imal additive potential (Hajak et al.
2003).
These agents are less likely to have deleterious side effects than most OTC treatments for insomnia,
however, with increased use, more side effects including next effects on driving have been reported.
This effect as well as next day re- bound insomnia has particularly been reported for higher doses
of zolpidem (Verster et al.
2002).
after zaleplon ingestion and 6.25 h.  after zopiclone ingestion (Paul et al.  2003).
While these agents have excellent efficacy with minimal side effects, at higher doses these agents
can exhibit benzodiazepine-like effects.
Idiosyncratic reactions of persistent daytime som- nolence and/or memory loss have been reported.
demonstrate an increased error rate in driving tests (Verster et al.
2007).
Such infor- mation was forthcoming only after these drugs became generic and widely utilized in
clinical practice.
demonstrate epidemiological effects on MVA’s and MVA associated deaths.
In the elderly, chronic use of sedating drugs (particularly those with anti-cholinergic side
effects) can be associated with an increased risk for falls, and confusion (American Geriatrics
The newer GABA-effective hypnotics are the only medications with demonstrated effectiveness in
Pain assessment involves more than just quantifying
theintensityofpain.Highpainintensityratingsorbehav-
tolerance and psychological distress.
Assessment should determine what interven- tions have been effective for the pain, how the pain af-
there are barriers to effective pain management, such as cultural
Pain that is relativelywell controlled at rest canbe severe dur- ing movement or with specific
activities that cause increased pain (eg, swallowing after tonsillectomy), with important
implications for symptom management and recovery.
The panel suggests that clinicians assess pain at rest and with activities, as the latter is often
more severe and difficult to control than pain at rest.110,270 Presence of pain with activity has
For example, pain that is well controlled at rest but severe with movement can have major effects on
pain with swallowing after tonsillectomy could increase risk for dehydration.
Assessments for other clinical issues such as sedation, delirium, and nausea or other side effects
related to interventions are also important to help guide decisions regarding adjustmentofthe
patient reassessments in the postoperative setting.
The timing of assessments after administration of an intervention should be informed by the time to
achieve peak ef- fects, which is typically 15 to 30 minutes after paren- teral drug therapy or 1 to
2 hours after administration of an oral analgesic.
With nonpharma- cologic interventions, pain relief often occurs during or immediately after their
application.
The optimal fre- quency of reassessment is likely to depend on a num- ber of factors, including the
type of surgical procedure, the adequacy of initial pain relief, the pres- ence of side effects,
changes in clinical status.
Pain reassessments might be useful at the time of nursing shift changes or with new caregivers to
establish a baseline and promote continuity of care, although evidence showing that routine
available.
Multimodal analgesia, defined as the use of a variety of analgesic medication and techniques that
target different mechanisms of action in the peripheral and/or central nervous system (which might
multimodal approach to perioperative pain.
Because of the availability of effective nonopioid analgesics and nonpharmacologic therapies for
postop- erative pain management, the panel suggests that clini- cians routinely incorporate around
Systemic opioids might not be required in all patients.
One study suggests that it shouldbeavoidedwhennotneeded,becauselimitedev- idence suggests that
perioperative opioid therapy might be associated with increased likelihood of long-term opioid use,
with its attendant risks.4.
T here are two main distinctions between osteopathic and allopathic physicians.
utilize it in their diagnosis and treatment of disease involving internal organs and all other parts
of the body as well.
that osteopathic medicine offers a concise philosophy on which all clinical practice is based.
Central to this philosophy is the belief that the body has an inherent healing mechanism that allows
it to maintain health, resist illness, and recover from disease processes.
The goal of osteopathic medical treatment is.
1.  The body is completely united; the person is a fully inte- grated being of body, mind and spirit.
the function of the body as a whole and all other parts therein.
and health-maintenance.
self-regulatory mechanisms that it uses to heal itself from injury.
During this compensatory process, however, new dysfunctions may arise.
Osteopathic physicians must work to adjust the body so as to realign its parts back to normal.
Osteopathic manipulative medicine aims to restore the body’s self-healing capacity by decreasing
allo- static load, or the physiologic effects of chronic bodily stresses,1 and enhancing the immune
system.
3.  Structure and function are reciprocally interrelated.
In addition, if the body’s overall structure is suboptimal, its functioning and capacity for
self-healing will be inhibited as well.
in Hennepin and Ramsey counties in 2011.
Specifically, Minnesota Rules, 4605.7080, permits the Commissioner of Health to require reporting of
newly recognized or emerging diseases and syndromes suspected to be of infectious origin or
previously controlled or eradicated infectious disease if certain criteria are met.
Documentation on the approved proposal for this change as well as details on CRAB reporting and
(CP), with the majority producing OXA-23 or OXA-24.
to controlling transmission in health care facilities.
The case definition for reporting includes CRAB isolated from any body site that is resistant to any
carbapenem based on current Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute guidelines, or that
demonstrates the presence or production of a carbapenemase, if such testing is done.
Statewide surveillance for CRAB will include the submission of isolates to the MDH-PHL for further
characterization, the submission of susceptibility and other specimen test results, and demographic
completo do servidor; Período de dias de afastamento; nome da patologia conforme Código
Internacional de Doenças (CID); número do Conselho Regional de Medicina (CRM) ou número do Conselho
afastamento e data.
additional, unrelated debits or credits to your account.
I authorize the above named business to charge the credit card indicated in this authorization form
This payment authorization is for the goods/services described above, for the amount indicated above
I certify that I am an authorized user of this credit card and that I will not dispute the payment
with my credit card company; so long as the transaction corresponds to the terms indicated on this
form.
separates them and start looking at those ‘things’ whose hybrid nature has, for many dec- ades now,
already unified them in practice.” Arguably, the economic nature of human activity (represented by
lines representing different streams of literature in Figure 1) has changed substan- tively on
which enabled radically enhanced productivity improvements and a sea change in social theory in
their wake.
It is suggested here that societal, business, and biomedical ethics are not in- dependent of these
changes, and that the post-industrial paradigm, with its ethics premised on social theory developed
in response to industrialisation, has been disrupted by a further productiv- ity revolution which
ethical thought premised on industrialised logics and a new ethics based on exponential increases in
the power of knowledge to generate social and scientific change.
The emergence of new forms of enterprise, discussed earlier in reference to sale of human tissues,
and new forms of biotechnology, such as genetic engineering, are simply examples of this diver-
accountability, as emergent technologies enable not only radically improved potential for innova-
developments.
This divergence arguably places bioethicists, and education and profession- alization of bioethics
(White et al., 2014) at the forefront of strategic response to radical advances in biomedicine to
human values negotiation over increasingly beneficial and hazard- ous potentialities, the last line
of ethical resource might be the democratic population itself.
Abstract: Biomedical Informatics can be defined as “the interdisciplinary field that studies and
pursues the effective use of biomedical data, information and knowledge for scientific inquiry,
problem solving, and decision making, motivated by efforts to improve human health.” However,
professionals in the life sciences are facing an increasing quantity of highly complex,
identify, extract and understand information out of this data, it is obvious that an
interdisciplinary approach to bring these two fields closer together can yield synergies in the
application of these methods to weakly structured complex medical data sets.
The aim is to support end users to learn how to interactively analyse information properties and to
visualize the most relevant parts – in order to gain knowledge, and finally wisdom, to support a
Whether in astronomy or the life sciences, the flood of data requires sophisticated methods of
For example, researchers in bioinformatics collect, process and analyze masses of data, or in
computers, dealing with biomedical complexity (Patel, Kahol & Buchman, 2011) to support decision
in Data Mining (KDD) concentrates on machine intelligence, the grand challenge is to combine these
properties thus enabling them to visualize the relevant parts of their data.
integrate statistical methods with information visualization, to support human insight and decision
making (Holzinger, 2011a).
The broad application of business enterprise hospital information systems amasses large amounts of
All essential documents of the patient records contain a certain portion of data which has been
difficult (Gregory, Mattison & Linde, 1995), (Holzinger et al., 2000), (Lovis, Baud & Planche,
2000).
beneficiary or if none to the member’s estate.
A further example is the pricing of sofosbuvir (Sovaldi) – a medicine used for the treatment of
hepatitis C virus infection, potentially preventing future cases of liver cancer.
Fig.
3.3 (p.23) shows the timeline of price planning for Sovaldi based on information presented in the
report by the Committee on Finance of the United States Senate (100).
In this case, it shows the evolution of the expected price of Sovaldi from prior to its acquisition
stakeholders would react negatively to the firm’s final pricing of the product.
Furthermore, the manufacturer set a high price for Sovaldi with a view to consolidate the market’s
price expectation in preparation for setting an even higher price for a combination product that
contains sofosbuvir (Harvoni) that would be launched after Sovaldi.
It also included an arbitrary price increase from US$ 27 000 per bottle to US$ 28 000 per bottle
(i.e.
(100).
Even with sufficient clinical trial evidence at the time of regulatory approval, it is important to
Firstly, despite their established mechanisms of action, targeted cancer medicines may not have
To this point, a clinical trial has found that the progression-free survival of patients with
therapies that matched with the tumour’s molecular profile but outside their approved indications,
compared to patients who received treatment at the choice of their treating physicians (79).
This means that targeted therapies should only be used according to approved indications and not
Secondly, a major limitation of targeted cancer medicines is the occurrence of treatment resistance
Clinically, this means that patients may experience prolonged progression- free survival, but not
treatment resistance, it is important to recognize that the use of single targeted therapies may not
have durable treatment effects in clinical practice.
Furthermore, while the use of targeted therapies in combination may in theory mitigate the emergence
compromise the doses at which individual agents could be used in combination, which might in turn
lower its efficacy (82).
practice.
magnitude of benefits of cancer medicines.
The Working Group also shared country experience in facilitating access to existing cancer medicines
on the EML, newer high-cost cancer medicines and cancer care in general.
Below is a summary of the main points presented and discussed in the meeting (83).
1.1 - A Assistência à Saúde somente será prestada pelo IPSEMG aos seus beneficiários, mediante a
contribuição diretamente ao IPSEMG até o último dia útil do mês de contribuição, nos termos da Lei
Complementar nº 64, de 2002 e Decreto nº 42.897, de 2002.
RS810-Requerimento de exclusão de contribuição em vínculo de menor remuneração, disponível no site
www.ipsemg.mg.gov.br, no link Saúde, Cadastro Beneficiários, Requerimentos e Certidões e protocolar
em uma unidade de atendimento do IPSEMG juntamente com a cópia e o original da carteira de
identidade ou outro documento legal em que conste foto, filiação e naturalidade do segurado.
Os documentos poderão ser enviados também pelos Correios, desde que devidamente autenticados.
2.1 - Para o servidor que possui dois ou mais cargos no Estado e deseja ser beneficiário da
contribuição apenas no cargo de maior remuneração.
3.1 -Não se exige carência para Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG para o servidor efetivo que
fizer opção no momento da posse, bem como do dependente que o servidor que protocolizar o
requerimento de inscrição até 90 dias a contar da data da posse ou da constituição do vínculo de
dependência.
3.2 - A não adesão à Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG no momento da posse implicará na
submissão à carência de 180 dias para consultas, exames, cirurgias, internações e demais
procedimentos, inclusive os odontológicos e de 300 dias para partos para o servidor e seus
dependentes.
5.1- Qualquer interrupção da contribuição à Assistência à Saúde implicará na submissão aos prazos de
dias para consultas, exames, cirurgias, internações e demais procedimentos, inclusive os
deverá manifestar opção pela exclusão do desconto da contribuição à Assistência à Saúde, mediante
requerimento em formulário específico protocolizado na unidade setorial de Recursos Humanos do órgão
Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG, o servidor e seus dependentes serão submetidos aos prazos
de carência de 180 dias para consultas, exames, cirurgias, internações e demais procedimentos,
Assistência à Saúde IPSEMG durante o período de licença ou afastamento deverá preencher o "Termo de
Opção para recolhimento da contribuição de Assistência à Saúde do servidor licenciado ou afastado"
disponível no site www.ipsemg.mg.gov.br.
O termo de opção deverá ser protocolado em uma unidade de atendimento do IPSEMG.Essa opção deverá
ser formalizada no momento do requerimento da licença ou afastamento e as contribuições serão
recolhidas diretamente ao IPSEMG através de DAE - Documento de Arrecadação Estadual.
8.1 - Ao aderir à Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG, fica autorizada a utilização de dados
relativos ao servidor ou pensionista para efeito de atendimento do disposto no artigo 85 da Lei
previstos no artigo 16 da Lei nº 19.490 de 2011.
Flashing material should not be susceptible to corrosion in fresh mortar or react with adjacent
materials such as rigid insulation.
Compatibility with materials such as sealants or adhesives should be reviewed.
installed in brick masonry cavity walls.
Sheet metals used for flashing include stainless steel, copper, lead-coated copper and galvanized
Stainless steel and copper materials are the most durable, but are also the most expensive.
These flashing materials have a greater life expectancy than composite or fabric flashing.
Sheet metal flashing is bent and formed on site and sealed by soldering or with adhesives and
Heat-Resisting Steel Plate, Sheet and Strip.
Construction.
Solder should conform to ASTM B 32 Specification for Solder Metal.
install.
The most predominant type is a thin layer of metal sandwiched between one or two layers of another
The metal layer is usually of aluminum, copper or lead.
penetration and movement of the wall system.
Medicines may be subject to different taxes in countries that consider medicines like other consumer
goods for the purpose of taxation.
These include the application of import tariffs and value-added tax (VAT) (Table 3.4, p.43).
Countries that are signatories to the reciprocal Pharmaceutical Tariff Elimination Agreement, or the
“zero- for-zero” initiative, have 0% tariff (198).
The zero-for-zero initiative has extended to some non-signatory countries, including low- and
middle-income countries.
Some countries have also implemented tax exemption specifically targeting cancer medicines.
For example, from May 2018, the Government of China has exempted import tariffs on common medicines,
including 16 cancer medicines (199).
reduction or exemption are directly transferred to service providers or patients.
Many countries continue to apply tariffs on imported medicines, access to medicines (198).
goals (e.g.
≈1% of public revenue) (198,201).
to changing market conditions and therapeutic landscape.
The most commonly employed method is revision of medicine prices upon the loss of market exclusivity
For example, through an agreement with the pharmaceutical industry, the Australian Government has
√ This is an open authorization to allow charges to my credit card for all orders placed with
GlobalTranz.
I have read and agree to all of the terms and conditions on this page, as well as, the terms and
conditions of GlobalTranz found on www.carrierate.com, or any other document that accompanies this
agreement.
I certify that I am the authorized account holder for this credit card.
_______ I understand that the Brandon Valley School District reserves the right to regularly review,
(descrever de maneira clara com linguagem não técnica), para isso será realizado .............
assinatura de um Termo de Consentimento.
participar do estudo.
Durante a execução do estudo ..
(descrever os riscos e benefícios ou os procedimentos que causem algum tipo de dano/desconforto,
causar constrangimento à pessoa).
Studies of international regulations of drug prices and the Gant Consortium’s own analysis of the
sufficient” components of value-based drug regulations.
One study of MEAs argues that key components of successful agreements include:.
Ultimately, managed entry agreements require political consensus and considerable practical effort.
administrative burdens and complexity of collecting data and managing agreements with different
Should MEAs be adopted more widely by private insurers, the discounted prices are likely to remain
confidential.
Finally, MEAs do not resolve underlying controversies regarding appropriate comparator drugs,
by the academic advisor from each program.
If the extension is based on one of the degree programs, please provide a statement from the other
program(s) confirming that it has been completed and does not require an extension.
 Delays caused by academic probation or suspension are not acceptable reasons for program extension
[8 CFR 214.2(f)(7)(iii)].
employment such as Curricular Practical Training (F-1) or Academic Training (J-1).
3H-hypoxanthine (which is taken up by the parasite for purine salvage and DNA synthesis) to
in the presence ofdifferent concentrations of test compound in media containing reduced
concentrations of hypoxanthine,after which 3H-hypoxanthine is added for an additional incuba- tion
period before cell harvesting and measurement of radioactive counts.
dose–response curves.
activity in vitro,it is costly,radioactive and quite com- plex,and therefore problematic for
resource-poor loca- tions or for high-throughput screening (HTS,reviewed in REF.
A low-cost alternative for testing small numbers ofcompounds is to incubate parasites with test
Another established,but less standardized,assay involves the colorimetric detection of lactate
dehydrogenase52.
Flow cytometry has also been used to test candidate anti- malarial compounds,and takes advantage
ofthe fact that human erythrocytes lack DNA.In the simplest use ofthis technology, parasites are
obtained by flow cytometry.Appropriate gating can.
equipment.
tested for activity against a range ofgeographically dis- tinct P.falciparum lines of differing
drug-resistance phenotypes (see Further Information,Antimalarial drug discovery:efficacy models for
compound screening) to determine whether resistance to existing antimalarial drugs reduces parasite
Different research groups have incorporated a variety of modifications of the basic in vitro screens
listed above,which can influence the measurement of drug activity levels,as follows.
Unsynchronized versus synchronized cultures.For pre- liminary screening of diverse compounds, the
ofactivities and determining potency against different parasite stages54.
duration of one erythrocytic cycle.
50values when working with unsyn- chronized cultures and is important when testing slower-acting
Estou de acordo com o disposto no art.
candidato nas Eleições 2020, atendo a todas as condições de elegibilidade, bem como não incido em
nenhuma das hipóteses de inelegibilidade previstas no Regulamento Eleitoral, e que o endereço
e estou ciente de que as Comissões Eleitorais poderão se utilizar de tais dados para as comunicações
Comments and suggestions regarding this draft document should be submitted within 75 days of
Submit electronic comments to http://www.regulations.gov.
Submit written comments to the Division of Dockets Management (HFA-305), Food and Drug
1061, Rockville, MD 20852.
All comments should be identified with the docket number listed in the notice of availability that
have become the subfield of medical research.
The healthcare sector is presently facing both the economic predictability and the methodological
Hence, abundant data mining techniques have been proposed to process medical data stream.
Applying data mining techniques to the centralized database will offer to doctors investigative and
foretelling tools from the surface of the data.
Modern clinical practices also undertake transformation not only in diagnosis and treatment methods,
but also in understanding of health and illness concepts.
Data Mining can generate information that can be useful to all stakeholders in health care,
including patients by identifying effective treatments and best practices.
already, their applications in healthcare are comparatively young.
Therefore, this paper presents a survey on the significance of Data Mining techniques in Disease
their applications are restricted.
be a tenet for higher clinical cognitive process.
used to enhance the task.
examination done by human professionals, can also be computed in terms of cost and effect.
Providing precious services at cheap prices may be a major constraint encountered by the aid
organizations (hospitals, medical centers).
treatment.
reduced value.
Due to the accessibility of integrated info through huge patient repositories, there is a swing
President Obama has recently expressed a strong conviction that “Science offers great potential for
improving health”.
The time is accurate for this idealistic initiative, and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and
Even though it is not new, the impact of practicality is still deprived.
If one considers blood typing, for instance, has been used to guide blood transfusions for more than
a century.
development of large-scale biologic databases (such as the human genome sequence), powerful methods
for typifying patients (such as proteomics, metabolomics, genomics, diverse cellular assays, and
Please submit this completed form and any supporting documentation to Molina Healthcare of Illinois.
The fax must include the claims dispute request form.
Providers, please note: Please refer to the corrected claims form for submission guidelines on
claims being corrected and not disputed.
All records and other information regarding my treatment, hospitalization, and outpatient care for
my impairment(s) including, and not limited to: • Psychological, psychiatric or other mental
assessments, psychological and speech evaluations, and any other records that can help evaluate
function; also teachers' observations and evaluations.
4.
Information created within 12 months after the date this authorization is signed, as well as past
information.
104-191 ("HIPAA"); 45 CFR parts 160 and 164; 42 U.S.  Code section 290dd-2; 42 CFR part 2; 38 U.S.
Code section 1232g ("FERPA"); 34 CFR parts 99 and 300; and State law.
time of diagnosis through the remainder of their life.
Henceforth, the terms cancer patient and cancer survivor are used interchangeably without
preference, although it is recognized that not all people with a cancer diag- nosis identify with
the term “cancer survivor.”.
The goals of treatment are to “cure” the cancer, if possible; pro- long survival; and provide the
highest possible quality of life during and after treatment.
Although it is usually not possible to know if the cancer is completely eradicated, for many
patients, the initial course of therapy is successful and the cancer never returns.
psychological concerns such as fear of recurrence.
in the United States.
squamous cell skin.
NOTE: Beginning with the 2016-2017 edition, estimates for specific cancer types now take into
account the potential for a history of more than one cancer type.
Estimates should not be compared to those from previous years.
Cancer Institute.
(45.3% for "no answer") than other strands in first category (quality of examples) for second
It can conclude that students have demonstrated real-life category often in three strands.
Therefore educational systems have to create new circumferences for mathematics education.
importance and frequency of the relation of mathematics to real-life.
real-life in teaching mathematics and also students of experimental science strand believed that it
cannot create the relation between taught mathematical subjects and real-life.
In.
• Mood disturbances and cognitive difficulties.
Complaints of irritability, loss of interest, mild depression and anxi- ety are common among
Patients with chronic insomnia often complain of mental inefficiency, difficulty remembering,
difficulties for insomnia patients, or avoidance of such activities.
some individuals.
Sleep and wak- ing problems may lead to restriction of daytime activities, including social events,
exercise, or work.
Lack of regular daytime activities and exercise may in turn contribute to insomnia.
• Exacerbation of comorbid conditions.
Comorbid condi- tions may cause or increase sleep difficulties.
Likewise, poor sleep may exacerbate symptomatology of comorbid conditions.
Sleep complaints may herald the onset of mood disorders or exacerbation of comorbid conditions.  VI.
Other History: A complete insomnia history also in- cludes medical, psychiatric,
medication/substance, and family/ social/occupational histories.
insomnia.
Likewise, the direct effects of over-the-counter and prescription medications and substances (Table
7), and their effects upon withdrawal, may impact both sleep and daytime symptoms.
features on physi- cal or mental status examination.
However, these exams may provide important information regarding comorbid conditions and
circumference, upper airway restrictions) and comorbid medi- cal conditions that include but are not
thyroid), and gastrointestinal systems.
The mental sta- tus exam should focus on mood, anxiety, memory, concentra- tion, and degree of
alertness or sleepiness.
differential diagno- sis is further aided by the use of sleep logs, questionnaires for sleep
quality, sleepiness, psychological assessment and quality of life (Table 8), and in some cases,
actigraphy.21-23 For specific insomnias, psychological testing, quality of life questionnaires, and
other comorbid questionnaires and testing are useful.
The choice of assessment tools should be based on the patient’s pre- sentation and the clinician’s
expertise.
(to identify comorbid disorders and medication use) (2) The Epworth Sleepiness Scale or other
sleepiness assess- ment (to identify sleepy patients)24 (3) A two-week sleep log to identify
When possible, questionnaires and a two-week sleep log should be completed prior to the first visit
to begin the process.
medically related text and metadata features, such as “pa- tients,” “alzheimer,” “health information
management,” and “medicine” are also important and of mostly positive polar- ity, since medical
articles attract greater news coverage than, say, a recently published computer science paper.
As we dis- cuss later, the presence of “alzheimer” as an important, neg- ative feature is more an
artifact of the dataset than an iden- tification of trends in popularity.
We also find an artifact of year (2016) of the dataset with the feature “zika virus,” due to the
2015-2016 zika epidemic in North and South Amer- ica.
Three publishers appear in the top 20, the Massachusetts Medical Society, the publisher of the New
Society,” publisher of the less pres- tigious, but longest-running scientific journal, “Philosophi-
Understandably, performance is best when optimized for and evaluated on smaller ranks for NDCG since
weekly scientificarticlelistsarelongandtherearemoresuper popu- lar, possibly easier to rank,
for news coverage with articles published around the same time rather than just those published on
At ranks 35 and 70, as in the daily prediction task, the models using all features perform the best,
At rank 7, the model trained on textual features outperforms the model with all features, but not
statistically significantly.
Table5givesthetopfeaturesforthemodeltrainedtoopti- mize NDCG@7 and using textual features.
important and of positive polarity.
Inter- estingly, “protein” in the press release is of positive polar- ity on average, whereas it is
negative when present in the abstract.
We hypothesize that this may be because, on aver- age, very technical scientific papers, such as
Similar to Zhang et al.
(2016) “95” (for 95% CI) is an important, positive feature, perhaps since this is commonly found in
SincehavingapressreleaseonEurekAlert!orScienceDaily is, understandably, correlated with increased
releases posted on EurekAlert.
or Science Daily.  This subset consists of 20,546 scientific arti- cles.
Thresholds between relevances are much higher on this subset, with thresholds at the daily level of
using all features, and 0.6156 on the weekly task at rank 7, using all features.
However, although harder, this problem may be more realis- tic since, as noted in the introduction,
many journalists start with press materials to inform what science they cover be- fore reading
all scientific articles, except fea- tures from the press release are more prevalent.
We do not list features from the weekly experiments as they are quite sim- ilar.
In the previous experiments, we treat articles with news cov- erage from only automatic copying of
In this section, we also explore the binary prediction problem of differentiating be- tween those 0
count articles and those with any amount of real news coverage.
For each negative example, we attempt to find a positive example: 1.
The plank rests a minimum of 3 in.
(75 mm) on a bearing pad that separates the plank from a concrete masonry bond beam below.
In either case, connections should be designed by a structural engineer.
Wood floor joists normally have a 3 in.
The ends of the joist must not project into the cavity; they can form a ledge, which may create a
Wood floor joists may also be fastened to metal joist hangers attached to a ledger bolted to the
inner wythe of the cavity wall, or joist hangers may be embedded in the inner wythe of the cavity
See Fig.  23.
The inclusion of SPX Weeklys in the VIX Index calculation means that the near-term options will
always have more than 23 days to expiration and the next-term options always have less than 37 days
2 ; i.e., each individual weight is less than or equal to 1 and the sum of the weights equals 1.
43,200) N 365 = number of minutes in a 365-day year (365 x 1,440 = 525,600).
patients.
physician, will recommend appropriate cancer specialists.
There are three main types of cancer physicians or oncologists, based on the type of treatment
service they provide: medical (those who treat cancer using chemotherapy and other drugs), surgical,
Some types of oncologists focus on specific populations.
Some cancers, such as skin and prostate cancer, may be treated by doctors who specialize in specific
body systems (i.e., dermatologists and urologists, respectively).
website, cancer.net, for a searchable online database of cancer specialists.
Many other physician organizations have online physician databases, such as the American Society of
Hematology, the Society of Surgical Oncol- ogy, the American Medical Association, the American
College of Surgeons, the American Osteopathic Association, and the American Academy of Hospice and
surgical procedures they have performed and their outcomes.
Questions about how the doctor organizes cancer care with.
If you are aggrieved by this order, you have the right to request a hearing before the Board of
the date this Order was served or actually received.
Any affected party has the right to appear at said hearing.
I hereby confirm that I have read and understand the entire Service Order Form and I agree to all
the Terms and Conditions as provided in the agreement.
I further confirm that all the information provided by me is true and correct and that I am
authorized by stated Company to sign this agreement.
_______________________________________________________ e/ou seu responsável,
legais, especialmente do disposto no artigo 39, VI, da Lei 8.078/90 do Código de Defesa do
Consumidor que dá plena autorização ao (à) médico(a) assistente,
Dr.(a)_____________________________________________________, inscrito(a) no CRM sob o nº___________
o procedimento propedêutico designado “ARTERIOGRAFIA (ANGIOGRAFIA DIAGNÓSTICA)”, e todos os
22 e 34 do Código de Ética Médica e no art.
9º da Lei 8.078/90 (abaixo transcritos), prestando informações detalhadas sobre o diagnóstico e
Ana Cristina Reif de Paula 6698562.
DEFINIÇÃO: a Angiografia Diagnóstica consiste na injeção de meio de contraste intravascular, para
que juntamente com uso das imagens radiológicas possa esclarecer de forma precisa os diagnósticos em
questão.
É necessário lembrar que o paciente deve ser encaminhado ao exame o mais bem preparado possível, no
obrigado a tomar decisões e providências conforme a necessidade do momento para se atingir a solução
de problemas e desta forma atender com maior benefício para o paciente.
Como todo exame que se caracteriza como “invasivo’’ este procedimento é acompanhado de uma
devem ser explicitados.
Infecção hospitalar: A portaria nº 2.616, de 12/05/1998 do Ministério da Saúde estabeleceu as normas
(Comissão de Controle de Infecção Hospitalar).
2%, Cirurgias potencialmente contaminadas – 10%, Cirurgias contaminadas – 20%, Cirurgias Infectadas
– 40%.
Declara, igualmente, estar ciente de que o tratamento adotado não assegura a garantia de cura, e que
a evolução da doença e do tratamento podem obrigar o (a) médico (a) a modificar as condutas
Finalmente, declara ter sido informado a respeito de métodos terapêuticos alternativos e estar
atendido em suas dúvidas e questões, através de linguagem clara e acessível.
Assim, tendo lido, entendido e aceito as explicações sobre os mais comuns RISCOS E COMPLICAÇÕES
deste procedimento, expressa seu pleno consentimento para sua realização.
informar, de maneira ostensiva e adequada, a respeito da sua nocividade ou periculosidade, sem
prejuízo da adoção de outras medidas cabíveis em cada caso concreto.
Art.
39 - É vedado ao fornecedor de produtos ou serviços dentre outras práticas abusivas: VI – executar
serviços sem a prévia elaboração de orçamento e autorização expressa do consumidor, ressalvadas as
decorrentes de práticas anteriores entre as partes.
6 - O comprovante de despesas (recibo ou nota fiscal) deve ser feito em nome do titular ou
Deve conter a identificação do paciente atendido (mesmo que tenha sido o próprio titular), o nome do
realização do procedimento em questão.
8 - O valor cobrado pelos procedimentos descritos deve ser compatível com o valor dos recibos e/ou
nota fiscal apresentados.
9 - Caso o beneficiário opte por não apresentar documentação radiográfica, deve apresentar
heavy massive walls or the use of discontinuous construction.
The cavity wall employs both techniques, i.e., the massiveness of the two masonry wythes plus the
In cavity wall construction, the air space provides a partial isolation of the two wythes.
the vibration is dampened and greatly reduced.
through the wall.
There are many various design procedures for cavity walls.
Both rational and empirical design methods are used.
Rational design methods currently use working stress analysis.
Limit states or strength design methods are now being written.
of cracked panels have been proposed for the design of unreinforced walls.
However, insufficient data and lack of recognition by model building codes relegate these methods to
The structural design of cavity walls should follow either rational or empirical methods.
This method may be used for any structure where high loads are likely or where tall walls are a
construction with limited floor spans and wall heights; and for multistory buildings where
The design of cavity walls is governed by model building codes.
Most of these reference the ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402 Building Code Requirements for Masonry
Structures, also known as the Masonry Standards Joint Committee (MSJC) Code [2].
The Uniform Building Code incorporates similar design requirements for cavity walls [9].
Seismic design requirements are also stipulated in these building codes based on site location.
A detailed design of cavity walls is not covered in this Technical Notes.
For design aids and examples of design procedures, several books listed in the REFERENCES section
payment indicated below from the credit card provided by the cardholder.
This is strictly a one-time payment permission and does not provide authorization for any additional
unrelated debits or credits to the account.
the terms outlined.
I will not dispute the payment with my credit card company as long as the transaction corresponds to
the purposed indicated in this Form.
Benefício devido ao servidor ativo, inativo e ao pensionista, de caráter indenizatório, realizado
This paper introduces an unsupervised vector ap- proach to disambiguate words in biomedical text us-
ing contextual information from the UMLS.
(2006).
We believe that our approach shows promise and leads us to our goal of exploring the use of
Unlike SenseClusters, our approach can be used to perform all-words disambiguation.
We (cid:2)rst create a instance vector containing fluctuated, past and months for the word weight
We then calculate the cosine between the instance vector and each of the two concept vectors.
The concept whose vector has the smallest cosine score is assigned to weight.
We then repeat this process for fluctuated, past and months.
We also plan to explore using different contex- tual information to improve the accuracy of our
approach.
We are currently exploring using co- occurrence and relational information about the pos- sible CUIs
in the UMLS.
Our IDF stoplist exper-.
S.M.  Humphrey, W.J.  Rogers, H.  Kilicoglu, D.  Demner- Fushman, and T.C.  Rind(cid:3)esch.  2006.
Journal ofthe American Society for Information Science and Technolology, 57(1):96(cid:150)113.
Dear Parent(s) or Guardian(s): Each year, we are required by law to notify you of your child’s
proficiency level in English.
We must also provide you with the school’s recommendation for program placement and describe all
available program options.
(20 United States Code 7012 and 6312[g][1][A]; California Education Code Section 48985; and Title 5
of the California Code of Regulations Section 11309[a][b][1]) Your child’s current English
begineer.
(A more detailed description follows.) To request that your child be placed in an Alternative
apply for a “Parental Exception Waiver.”.
By signing below and submitting for payment, I acknowledge acceptance of Terms and Conditions.
be submitted in writing along with all order documentation in accordance with the standard policy of
To determine if there were possible changes in participants’ ratings before and after the workshop,
paired t-tests were run and analyzed.
Post-Workshop Student Survey, mean score differences and standard errors (SEs), dependent-samples
t-tests results (t statistic and degrees of freedom), p-values, and the effect sizes (measured by
dependent-samples Cohen’s d).
Table 3 shows faculty participants’ self-perception of their previous experience in mentoring and as
Before the workshop started, the faculty participants (n = 28) showed a medium average of previous
Specifically, faculty participants (n = 28) yielded a mean of 3.68 (SD = 1.02) on “Do you have
workshop surveys from faculty) highly-rated perceptions of workshop effectiveness were reported
Specifically, the majority expressed that the workshop was helpful (M = 4.77, SD = 0.51), that the
workshop was organized well (M = 4.88, SD = 0.33), that they would attend future related.
(Carruth and Carruth 2010; Hill n.d.; Kahn 2010) Medical tourism increases the economic situation
(Munro 2012; Pocock and Phua 2011) in a destination country, provides care for many individuals
It is difficult to determine, with any accuracy, the number of persons travelling from the U.S alone
to a foreign country for health care reasons.
Estimates of Americans travelling abroad for treatments place the number of persons traveling to
This estimate increased in 2010 to 6 million persons, with an economic gain of > $4 billion, with
half of the revenue going to India (Heung, Kucukusta, and Song 2011; Horowitz, Rosensweig, and Jones
2007; Hill n.d.).
As medical tourism develops into a multi-billion dollar industry, with steady annual growth
While the increase of health care treatments and procedures performed abroad involves many elective
health insurers deny payment, there is a growing interest by U.S.
health care insurers to pay for more expensive complex procedures, such as Coronary Arterial Bypass
“cash cow” for many U.S.
hospitals (Crowley 2010).
Because cardiac surgery procedures provide high revenue, smaller local hospitals can market as
offering a high-profile program in cardiac care even if the hospital has a low volume of bypass
cases, thereby increasing patient volume and revenue (Regenbogen, Gust, Birkmeyer 2012).
coronary bypass surgical procedures from 1992 to 2003, while the number of hospitals performing
these surgeries steadily increased (Wilson, et al.
2007).
Using Nationwide Inpatient Sample data (2001 – 2008), a study by Epstein et al (2011) supports
In an effort to lure Americans to seek care abroad, coronary bypass procedures have become one of
several expensive health care procedures offered by larger health care facilities in India,
This paper focuses on examining the growing interest of U.S.
India, Thailand, or Singapore.
Costs of coronary bypass surgery is cited by more U.S.
individuals and companies providing employee health insurance as being the single most important
factor of consideration for seeking coronary bypass surgery abroad.
A comparison study of costs for coronary bypass surgery in two large hospitals in India, one in
 Completion of Program: This option may be used only one time.
The student is graduating during the current term and needs only ________ credits to complete the
degree requirements.
need to be repeated.
 Graduate students working on a degree REQUIRED project: The student is either completing all
coursework and is only working on a REQUIRED project.
 Medical Condition: Cannot accumulate more than 12 months of Reduced Course Load exemption for this
reason per academic program.
should take a reduced course load/refrain from taking courses during the current term.
Please attach the letter to this form.
 Impending failure of a course, financial hardship, or intent to delay graduation are NOT
acceptable reasons to take a reduced course load.
Our office has implemented a policy which will help to reduce the cost of healthcare for both you
As a benefit to you, we will ask for a credit card number to be held securely until your charges
have been processed.
A copy of the receipt will be mailed to you for your records.
Federal law requires the New York City Department of Education (DOE) to provide names, addresses,
and telephone numbers of 11th and 12th grade high school students to military recruiters and
institutions of higher education that request this information, except where the parent or student
law.
If you do not consent to the disclosure of this information, you must fill out the following form
If you do not return the form by this date and your child is a student in the 11th or 12th grade, we
will release your child’s information upon request.
any time during your child’s school career and the request for non-disclosure will be honored.
For parents of 9th and 10th grade students, the opt-out form can be completed and saved in advance.
institutions of higher education that request this information, except where the parent or student
opts out by notifying the DOE in writing that he/she does not consent to release this information.
law.
If you are a student in the 9th or 10th grade, the opt-out form can be completed and saved by the
years of listing, respectively (203).
periods of exclusivity.
It might also incentivize the companies to work with clinicians for faster adoption of the medicines
in clinical practice so as to maintain its profitability through increased volume.
industry for anti-infectives overall, and significantly better than for other therapeutic areas,
such as neurol- ogy and oncology.
One difficulty with such an analysis is that new chemotypes have an inherently higher risk than
resistance (which are higher for drugs that have been used for many years).
projects.
The overall success rates have not changed significantly in the last 3 years, either for MMV or for
The data shows that a new molecule in formal preclinical evaluation has an 8% chance of becoming
part of a product.
The naïve interpretation of this is that no more than 13 candidate compounds would be needed for a
reasonable chance of launching one new medicine, and 25 for a com- bination with two NCEs (new
How- ever, if one aims for a 90% overall chance of success (P), the number of candidates n, each
with a success probabil- ity s (8%) is described by the negative binomial distribu- tion in Eq.
1.
The numerical solutions for this equation show that at least 48 molecules are to be evaluated for
years’ invest- ment per combination, except if there is a considerable increase in success rates
going forwards (and a justifica- tion for this), or significantly increased investment.
The definition of new molecular targets also opens up new possibilities for engaging the wider
research community, allowing access to resources such as the EU’s European Lead Factory, which
considers molec- ular targets but not phenotypic approaches.
The increased stringency of review of projects at the lead and preclinical candidate stages means
that the quality of compounds is theoretically improving, so future success rates may be
underestimated [112].
have been aban- doned, with six moving successfully to phase I, and a fur- ther seven working their
way through safety studies, with four new phase I starts expected in 2017.
1 shows, doubling the success rate for indi- vidual candidate molecules (from 8 to 16%) more than
halves the number that need to be evaluated.
One area for possible improvement is the success rate in phase III,.
or more suc- cessful medicines, the number n of candidate molecules pursued, and success probability
s for each candidate.
In this expression the left term denotes the overall fail- ure to discover at least two successful
The terms on the right add the probabilities of finding zero, or exactly one successful.
d Stage success rate of 60% for combining two medicines has been added into reflect the potential
additional risk because of the change in endpoints between parasite reduction in phase IIa (APCR on
possible to produce a pediatric presentation.
Known robot activity (software robots downloading all free material for indexing purposes, e.g.,
Citation figures were gathered monthly from the Web of Science (http://www.isiknowledge.com) for the
first 3 yr after article publication.
While journals control the primary access route to articles, it is common in some disciplines and at
in digital repositories.
for PDF copies of articles anywhere on the Internet (ignoring the publisher’s website) 1 yr after
publication.
We attempted to identify as many instances of self-archiving as possible, while minimizing the
the readership analysis, as many did not include abstract or full-text versions of their articles,
and, in some cases, refer- ence views were added to full-text views, resulting in indeter- minate
and incomparable results.
Citation analyses were conducted on the entire article data set (n(cid:1)3245).
group being cited within the first year after publication, controlling for journal and journal
category effects.
Multivariate linear regression models were used to estimate the effect of the open access treatment
on article readership and citations.
(review, other), length of article (in pages), number of authors, and whether the article was
Continuous variables (page length, number of authors, and number of citations) were log transformed
to adhere to the assumption of normality re- quired for linear regression.
for the variation in journal effects generally, journals were considered random effects in the
regression models.
In analyzing article citations, 1 was added to each citation count prior to log transformation as
slopes of the regression lines and not their intercepts.
To interpret the results of the regression equation, estimates of log-transformed variables were
For exam- ple, if the logCitation estimate were 0.5, the ME of this estimate would be e0.5 or 1.65,
representing a 65% increase in citations.
(HTML) downloads on average (115%; 95% CI, 103– 129%) and, to a lesser degree, a significant
increase in the number of full image (PDF) downloads (62%; 95% CI, 53–72%).
As measured by IP addresses, freely accessible articles received roughly a third more unique
(cid:2)26%).
Earlier citation estimates revealed similarly small, nonsignificant results (3% at 12 mo, 4% at 18
Figure 1 provides a visual comparison of results by subject category.
In comparison, review articles, the number of au- thors, and page length were all significant
predictors of article citations (Table 1).
estimate was not significant (ME 1.11; 95% CI, 0.92–1.33; P (cid:1) 0.266).
Just 65 articles (2%) in our data set were self-archived, however, limiting the statistical power of
***** Nehodící se škrtněte.
Průběžná zpráva spolu se žádostí o druhou splátku se zasílá pouze v případě více než 12 měsíců
to naprosto nezbytné pro implementaci projektu.
Table 10.  The quantities in columns 2-9 are defined in Subsection 6.1.
Row 2 corresponds to the commercial claims data of [Blumen et al, 2016].
Rows 3-6 correspond to the Medicare data of [Schrag, 2015].
nomenclature for Oral = oral cavity and pharynx cancer), and column 3 = standard deviation (see
Subsection 6.2).
Column 4 = number of estimated new incidences as reported in [ACS, 2017] and [Siegel et al, 2017].
The factors (column 6) and rate (column 7) are taken from Table 10 for breast, colorectal, lung and
prostate cancers and melanoma (bold font).
For other cancer sites the factor is extrapolated from the values in Table 10 (italicized font) and
See Subsection 6.1.  The relative cost-savings (column 8) are obtained via Eq.  (12) and Eq.
(13), and cost-savings from early diagnosis (column 9) via Eq.
➢ São aceitos para reembolso nota fiscal (pessoa jurídica) ou recibo (pessoa física) datado e
Completing this form does not guarantee an assignment.
Some programs and/or support services may not be offered at your preferred school- a list of program
New students must first register online at www.seattleschools.org/admissions to obtain their student
Non-resident and Early Entrance Kindergarten students are not eligible to participate in the Open
*Sibling Tiebreaker, if applicable: (For the tiebreaker to apply: A.
At least one of the older siblings must be attending the choice school in the current and following
for dual language immersion at either John Stanford or McDonald International.
I understand that a proficiency test required for K and 1st grade prior for language placement but
grades 2–5 is for admittance only.
no-relationship.
We then build a SVM to separate negative from neutral and no- relationship.
Such an ordering is chosen on the basis of both manual observations and empirical evaluation.
Here we build a SVM to separate neutral and no-relationships first from positive and negative ones.
The above combination strategy is based on analyses of our dataset, which shows that positive and
existing records according to polarity.
that polarity has no effect on the strength analysis.
We evaluate four kernel functions when building a SVM or a SVR, including linear, sigmoid,
polynomial and radial-bias function (RBF).
We explore a variety of kernel combinations for building the multi-stage classifiers for polarity
In this section, we report the main results to demonstrate that the proposed feature space can
effectively predict the polarity and strength of the relationships extracted from biomedical
literature.
These results also indicate that not every feature contributes equally to the two problems under
The annotated corpus described in section 2 is used for our evaluation studies.
(See Tables 4-5 for the corpus distribution according to polarity and strength.) We perform 10-fold
Classification accuracy is primarirly used to measure the performance of each SVM, whereas
prediction accuracy is used for each SVR.
To understand this table, let us take an example of the row with feature combination (2+5) for the
One vs.
(2+5) represents the feature combination of POS-based unigrams with WordNet correction and unary
semantics-based sequential structures.
which is the polynomial kernel for the feature set (2+5).
The column L2 gives the best kernel function used to separate negative from (neutral and no-
relationship).
list the average accuracy for each of the polarities after 10-fold cross validation using the.
kernel functions under columns L1 and L2.
10-fold cross validation.
Finally, the column SE indicates the standard error of the overall accuracy.
The highlighted columns represent the best overall accuracy obtained after 10-fold cross validations
all and two vs.  two methods.
Table 6 Polarity classification results using the 2 SVM schemas and different feature sets.
Column notations: L1-- level 1 of the SVM, L2--level 2 of the SVM, L--linear kernel, P--polynomial
kernel), R--RBF kernel, OA--overall accuracy, + (Positive), - (Negative), = (Neutral), .
(No-relationship).
Feature notations: 1--Penn Treebank based Unigram, 2-- unigrams with WordNet based POS correction,
The top three models are highlighted.  Note that the standard error is that of the overall accuracy.
From Table 6, one can observe that the positive polarity constantly has high accuracy for both
methods as compared to the other polarities.
shown in Table 4.
We also observe that the “no-relationship” has a constantly high accuracy and is not influenced by
other feature combinations.
The reason behind this is that the unigrams found in the relationships that have “no relationship”
The accuracy of neutral relationships is low because neutral and positive relationships tend to
contain.
Table:1 highlights a few of such system’s leading objectives along with their associated authors
working in the field of predicting medical disease(s) using data mining technique.
Common data mining techniques which are used in almost all the sectors are listed as: Naive Bayes,
Decision Tree, Artificial neural network (ANN), K- nearest neighborhood (KNN), Support vector
machine (SVM) etc.
gained by data mining can be exercised for booming research problems in the associated arena [33].
The undersigned hereby voluntarily consents to undergo a health screening test performed by
Healthwaves.
I understand that it is not possible to diagnose or define any disease or problem with a single test
alone, and that a screening cannot detect every health problem.
For example, a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test cannot detect all prostate cancers.
Blood test results can fluc- tuate from day to day due to changes in the individual and from
laboratory variation.
As a result, a test may be abnormal at one time and not another.
If any of my results fall outside normal ranges, I understand I should see a physician for a follow
up evaluation.
Often a retest by your physician will be necessary.
A new sterile needle is used for each blood test.
I understand possible but infrequent side effects include fainting, bacterial infection, or bruising
(hematoma) at the puncture site.
I understand that because these are screenIng tests, they are not reImbursable under most Insurance
Director, Patrick N.
Connell, M.D.  or as otherwise designated on the laboratory requisition or results forms.
Healthwaves practices in accordance with the HIPAA regulations as pertains to privacy practices and
WHEREAS, on March 16, 2020 the Town of Dedham, through the Board of Selectmen, Town Administrator
and Board of Health, has determined that COVID-19 poses a significant, immediate threat to the
public health, safety, and welfare of people residing both within and outside the Town of Dedham
and, as such, has declared a Local State of Emergency; and.
Clinicians should individualise adjustments based on patient-specific symptoms, symptom severity,
academic demands, as well as pre-existing conditions, such as mood disorder, learning disability or
attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder.87 88 Athletes with complicated or prolonged recovery may
return-to-sport progression is individualised and is a function of the injury, the athlete’s age,
prior SRC and level of play, and the ability to provide close supervision during the return to
The return-to-sport progression presented by the CISG is widely accepted but empiric, without
evidence to support either the progression sequence or the time spent in each stage.
In general, for young athletes, each stage of the progression should be at least 24 hours without
return of symptoms before progressing to the next stage.
In addition to return to learning and sporting environments, older athletes may need to return to
driving, where subtle defi- cits could compromise safety.
complex process involving coordination of cognitive, visual and motor skills, as well as
concentration, attention, visual percep- tion, insight and memory, which can all be affected by
SRC.90 Little is known about the risk of driving after SRC, but prelim- inary data suggest some
impairment exists when patients with concussion report they are asymptomatic.91 Currently, no
Continuing to play immediately following a concussion is a risk for increased symptom burden,
recovery are at increased risk of repeat concussion.96 Some research has demonstrated that athletes
who return to sport after SRC following standard return to sport protocols had an increased rate of
It is considered by some to be a potentially life-threatening complication of reinjury during the
paediatric and adolescent athletes.99 (C).
/B l is h e d a s 1 0 .1 1 3 6 /b js p o r ts - 2 0 1 8 - 1 0 0 3 3 8 o n 3 1 J a n u a r y 2 0 1
and level of play, and the ability to provide close supervision during the return to activity, and
progressions may vary between athletes.
Each stage is generally 24 hours without return of concussion symptoms.
in life have low methodolog- ical quality, high risk of bias or both.101–103 Several studies have
experience depression, although the risk of mental health issues, including suicide, among former
difference in cognitive func- tion testing and have lower depression scores when compared with
non-contact sport controls.104 Mental health issues are common, multifactorial and often present
Longitudinal research on contact sport athletes that addresses multiple variables is needed to
understand the long-term risks.
students.
​TARGETED AREA(S).
(​Name of Provider​) will be working with your child ​_____​ times in the six-day cycle with each
session being ​______​ minutes in length.
Progress will be monitored and reviewed every six to eight weeks and you will be informed
accordingly.
At any time, you may request the Committee on Special Education (CSE) conduct an initial evaluation
Brewster Road, Scarsdale, NY 10583.
For more information, you may speak with the school psychologist in your building, or with me.
If you are declining enrollment for yourself or your dependents (including your spouse) because of
ends.
In addition, if you have a new dependent as a result of marriage, birth, adoption, or placement for
enrollment within 30 days after the marriage, birth, adoption, or placement for adoption.
understand that Harvard Pilgrim has the right to terminate coverage, retroactive to the effective
bids tends to expand and contract.
day-to-day and possibly, even minute-to-minute.
> Determine the forward SPX level, F, by identifying the strike price at which the absolute
difference between the call and put prices is smallest.
The call and put prices in the following table reflect the midpoint of each option’s bid / ask
quotation.
In this example, K 0, 1 = 1960 and K 0, 2 = 1960.
Start with the put strike immediately lower than K 0 and move to successively lower strike prices.
puts with lower strikes are considered for inclusion.
fidelidade a evolução clínica e eventualmente para ajuda diagnóstica; ou, ainda, para poderem ser
de dismorfologia) ou no ensino médico e na formação contínua para profissionais de saúde.
Em qualquer caso, é garantido que haverá ocultação de dados de identificação da pessoa.
A não ser que esta ou os seus repre- sentantes legais não o autorizem expressamente, será incluída a
necessários ao ato acima referido.
Foi-me também explicado que a minha autorização pode ser retirada, em qualquer altura, sem que isso
cause qualquer prejuízo ou afete os cuidados que me são prestados pelo CGPP a mim ou à minha
família.
finalidade da gravação de imagens em fotografia e/ou vídeo e os procedimentos respetivos.
Também garanti que, em caso de recusa, serão assegurados os melhores cuidados possíveis nesse
contexto, no respeito pelos seus direitos.
Using polysomnographic recordings, sleep can be classified into rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and
The NREM sleep is further classified into 3 sleep stages namely Stage N1 sleep, Stage N2 sleep, and
occurrence of synchronous physiologic EEG potentials.
Drowsy awake with eyes closed is defined by the presence of alpha - the fre- quency with the most
Stage N2 sleep is denoted by bursts of sleep spindles at sigma fre- quency (11–16 Hz) and K-complex
Deep sleep (stage N3 sleep) oc- curs in association with delta frequency oscillations (0.5– 1.5 Hz).
oscillations noted in scalp recordings, associated with conjugate eye.
movements and diminished skeletal EMG activity.
Medi- cations producing CNS-related behavioral effects generally affect background EEG frequencies
pattern of behavioral change (Hermann and Schaerer 1986).
Sleep regulation is a complex interaction between the homeostatic and the endogenous circadian
processes (Borbély et al.
hypothalamus (Dai et al.
1998; Hofman et al.  1996; Swaab et al.  1985; Vimal et al.  2009).
The other import- ant element to the timing of the sleep/wake cycle is the endogenously produced
ical procedures (Johnson et al.
2002).
vary with circadian rhythm (Sack et al.
***** Nehodící se škrtněte.
Průběžná zpráva spolu se žádostí o druhou splátku se zasílá pouze v případě více než 12 měsíců
to naprosto nezbytné pro implementaci projektu.
attorney-in-fact to: 1) transfer policy values among the available investment divisions; 2) change
This authorization is subject to the following:.
2.
assigns each release the Company from any liability for acting in reliance upon any instruction
given pursuant to this authorization; and they jointly and severally agree to indemnify the Company
against any claim, liability or expense, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of any
The owner may revoke this authorization by sending written notice of such revocation to the Company
at the address shown above, which will be effective only when received and recorded by the Company.
A separate limited power of attorney must be completed for each policy over which such authorization
is desired to be given.
Authorization may be granted only to specified individuals, not to corporate or partnership
entities.
5.
This limited power of attorney/authorization is personal to the holder and may not be delegated to
any other person or organization.
The Company will not accept instructions from any person or organization purporting to be authorized
by the limited attorney-in-fact.
Further, the limited attorney-in-fact agrees to follow the Company’s instructions and procedures and
shall be subject to all provisions of the policy and the offering prospectus for making such
transfers.
The model using all features performs the best, but it does not statisti- cally significantly
outperform models using all textual fea- tures or metadata, title and press release features.
Due to the nonlinear nature of gradient boosted trees, we are unable to exactly determine the po-
larity of different features, only their importances, given by the number of times on which they
were split.
We approxi- mate feature polarity by the difference in average relevance of documents with and
without each feature.
Regardless, we provide some discussion and speculation.  As expected, coverage on Eu- rekAlert.
or Science Daily is very predictive, as are gener- ally popular and unpopular subjects such as
medicine (pop- ular) and chemistry (unpopular).
Results from the tests showed that the average value of critical thinking ability to the average
achievement after the testing ended, showed the relationship was statistically significant (.05).
As a result, the researchers compared the results of Table 4 and determined that after the posttest,
before the study.
I ____________________________ authorize the Roseville Area Chamber of Commerce to charge (print
In addition to the VIX Index, Cboe calculates several other broad market volatility indexes
of the S&P 500 Index, the Cboe S&P 500® 3-Month Volatility Index (VIX3MSM), Cboe S&P 500® 6-Month
Cboe also calculates the Nasdaq-100® Volatility Index (VXNSM), Cboe DJIA® Volatility Index (VXDSM)
and the Cboe Russell 2000® Volatility Index (RVXSM).
Price history for the original Cboe Volatility Index (VXO) based on OEX options is available from
1986 to the present.
Cboe has created a similar historical record for the new VIX Index dating back to 1990 so that
investors can compare the new VIX Index with VXO, which reflects information about the volatility
“skew” or “smile.”.
and a formula to calculate index values.
Some different rules and procedures apply when calculating the VIX Index value to be used for the
For more information about those differences, refer to the section below titled “The Calculation of
the Final Settlement Value for VIX Derivatives.”.
Please mail or fax a copy of this form to CARE, or call (910) 256-2624.
Please retain a copy of this form for your tax purposes or if you would like us to mail you a tax
receipt, please check here.
FOR AND IN CONSIDERATION of the covenants, premises and agreements contained herein as hereinafter
set out, Owner does hereby let and rent unto Tenant, rental space located at the SERVCO RV STORAGE,
1200 & 1250 E.
Grant St.  Lebanon, OR 97355 for the following term:.
1.
RENT: Tenant shall pay to Owner the sum of $________ per month, payable on the first each month in
advance for the premises.
2.
Notwithstanding such late charges, failure to pay and such monthly payment on or before the due date
shall be deemed a default by Tenant under terms of this agreement.
The essential feature of this disorder is insomnia caused by a coexisting medical disorder or other
physiological factor.
Although insomnia is commonly associated with many medi- cal conditions, this diagnosis should be
used when the insomnia causes marked distress or warrants separate clinical attention.
This diagnosis is not used to explain insomnia that has a course independent of the associated
medical disorder, and is not routinely made in individu- als with the “usual” severity of sleep
symptoms for an associated medical disorder.
disorders, physiological states, or substance use or exposure.
associated conditions, or when the patient fails to meet criteria for a more specific disorder.
ability to sleep and the daytime consequences of poor sleep, dis- torted beliefs and attitudes about
schedule or lifestyle changes), and excessive time spent awake in bed.
The latter behavior is of particular significance in that it often is associated with “trying hard”
to fall asleep and growing frustration and tension in the face of wakefulness.
Thus, the bed becomes associated with a state of waking arousal as this conditioning paradigm
repeats itself night after night.
Para que o servidor receba regularmente o benefício deve apresentar, anualmente, até o último dia
janeiro e dezembro do ano anterior ou declaração da operadora do plano de saúde, contendo o
IMPORTANTE: - O benefício será devido a partir da data de entrada do processo de requerimento, desde
que a.
Declaro que não recebo idêntico benefício em outro órgão público, bem como que não figuro como
dependente para fins de recebimento deste benefício, estando ciente que a inveracidade das
informações ora prestadas constituem falta grave, passível de punição nos termos da lei específica,
inclusive com a suspensão do benefício.
1.
Fica assegurado o reembolso nos limites das obrigações contratuais das despesas pelo beneficiário
com assistência odontológica, nos casos de urgência ou emergência, quando não for possível a
utilização dos serviços próprios, contratados, credenciados ou referenciados do plano e o acesso a
livre escolha de prestadores não participantes da rede credenciada.
Odontológicos praticada pela CAPESESP.
5.
CGC, número da inscrição estadual, número da inscrição municipal e endereço, bem como a
partir da sua decisão, em especial, o risco de piora do seu estado de saúde ou de prejudicar o
diagnóstico e o tratamento de sua patologia, bem como outros riscos que podem surgir disso.
ciência sobre os riscos e implicações que podem ocorrer a partir dela, bem como que essa decisão
paciente.
Abstract: This Technical Note provides descriptions and photographs that aid in identifying
efflorescence and stains on brick- work.
It includes information on stain composition, factors that influence their occurrence, and stain
Key Words: carbonates, chlorides, efflorescence, manganese, rain water, silicates, stains, soluble
These may originate from materials in the brick or mortar, from adjacent materials, and from outside
sourc- es such as cleaning agents.
Each has a particular chemical composition and a unique means of removal.
returning brickwork to its proper appearance.
Some stains are often misidentified or are mistaken for efflorescence.
experienced brick personnel or professionals verify the efflorescence or type of stain.
Misidentification may result in application of an inappropriate correction method.
When correctly identified, efflorescence and stains can generally be removed.
Inappropriate correction methods may result in further staining or damage of the brickwork.
Efflorescence is normally a harmless deposit of water- soluble, white salt crystals, as shown in
Photo 1.
In some instances efflorescence may appear on mortar joints as shown in Photo 2.
extreme cases, cover the entire brickwork surface.
are excluded from assessment.
Catego- ries of joint distribution are classified according to the location and
numberoftheinvolvedjoints,withplacementintothehighestcategory possible based on the pattern of joint
“Large joints” refers to shoulders, elbows, hips, knees, and ankles.
“Small joints” refers to the metacarpophalangeal joints, proximal interphalangeal joints, second
through fifth metatarsophalangeal joints, thumb inter- phalangeal joints, and wrists.
“Symmetric” is defined as bilateral involvement of at least 1 region.
other joints can include any combination of large and additional small joints, as well as other
joints not specifically listed elsewhere (e.g., temporomandibular, acromioclavicular,
sternoclavicular, etc.).
†Negative refers to IU values that are less than or equal to the upper
ULN but (cid:3)3 times the ULN for the laboratory and assay; high-positive refers to IU values that
Where rheumatoid factor (RF) information is only available as positive or negative, a positive
result should be scored as low-positive for RF.
‡ Normal/abnormal is determined by local laboratory standards.
CRP (cid:2) C-reactive protein; ESR (cid:2) erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
synovitis (e.g., pain, swelling, tenderness) of joints that are clinically involved at the time of
assessment, regardless of treatment status.
rules for the classification of such patients, it is appro- priate to have a single criteria system
that could be applied to all patients; these issues were addressed by the expert panel during Phase
3.
Determination of the optimal cut point for defi- nite rheumatoid arthritis.
phases: data- informed and consensus-based.
scenarios based on the new scoring system and to indicate, in their opinion, the point at which the
cases changed from “probable” to “definite” RA.
were more likely another diagnosis).
For the remaining 50 cases, the mean cut point defining definite RA was 65.7 (median 66.1; range
60.0–70.3) of a total possible score of 100.
A data-driven verification of that cut point was then attempted, in which the new scoring system was
calculation of the patients’ probability scores at baseline.
The disease characteristics of these cohorts were not substantively different from those of the re-
maining cohorts (data not shown).
12 months and those who did not (AUC for the ROC curves 0.88 [Norway], 0.67 [France], and 0.72
[Rotterdam]).
Visual inspection of the diagnostic test parameters associated with curves that used MTX initi-
French cohort, and 66 in the Rotterdam cohort).
Given the consistency with the consensus- based approach, and to maximize sensitivity of the
criteria, a cut point of 60 was deemed to be most appropriate.
Rationale for the composition and weight of the final criteria.
Based on.
coleta.
Eu isento todos os médicos, profissionais de laboratório, hospitais, clínicas, laboratórios e
empresas envolvidos na realização deste teste e de todas e quaisquer responsabilidades advindas das
informações contidas no resultado do meu teste.
Eu certifico que o número do lacre de segurança deste formulário é o mesmo presente no frasco que
contém minha amostra, e que esta foi selada em minha presença.
Assinatura: _________________________________________ Data: _____/_____/_________ 03 03 2020.
As reflected in the statutory new drug and new animal drug approval standards in sections 505 109
evidence that is the basis for the risk assessment of a drug differs from the evidence that is the
The effectiveness determination is generally intended 112 to evaluate a drug’s positive effect based
on adequate and well-controlled trials designed to 113 evaluate a specific efficacy variable (or a
discrete number of efficacy variables) for the purpose 114 of distinguishing the effect of the drug
from other influences.11 In contrast, FDA’s premarket 115 risk assessment is intended to identify
and characterize the nature, frequency, and severity of the 116 usually broad spectrum of adverse
events and other risks associated with the use of a product 117 based on a range of data sources.
For human drugs, the supporting data are generally not derived 118 from studies designed to test a
specific safety hypothesis.
The assessment is based largely on 119 observations of adverse events from studies intended to
assess effectiveness and includes all 120 patients exposed to the investigational drug during its
development.
to observations of adverse 122 events from studies intended to assess effectiveness.12 For both
severity.13 126.
The ADVERSE REACTIONS section is the repository for all adverse reactions associated with a drug.
Depending on the seriousness or other important clinical implications of an adverse reaction, it may
PRECAUTIONS, CONTRAINDICATIONS, and BOXED WARNING sections.14 For example, the ADVERSE REACTIONS
section of approved human drug labeling is explicitly required to “describe the overall adverse
reaction profile of the drug based on the entire safety database.”15 The threshold for inclusion of
an adverse event16 in approved human drug labeling is a determination that “there is some basis to
to the time of drug exposure, (6).
The statewide assessments are how we as a state measure that curriculum and daily instruction in our
schools are being aligned to the academics standards, ensuring all students are being provided an
• In Minnesota’s implementation of the federal Every Student Succeeds Act, a student not
participating in the statewide assessments will not receive an individual score and for the purpose
of school and district accountability calculations, including opportunities for support and
recognition, will not be considered “proficient.”.
about where to purchase a home or to enroll their children.
• School performance results that are publicly released and used by families and communities, are
negatively impacted if students do not participate in assessments.
The Minnesota K–12 Academic Standards are the statewide expectations for student academic
achievement.
They identify the knowledge and skills that all students must achieve in a content area and are
organized by grade level.
aligned to the academic standards.
The statewide assessments in mathematics, reading, and science are used to measure whether students,
and their school and district, are meeting the academic standards.
Statewide assessments are one measure of how well students are doing on the content that is part of
their daily instruction.
teaching the standards.
Minnesota Statutes, section 120B.31, subdivision 4a, requires the commissioner to create and publish
a form for parents and guardians to complete if they refuse to have their student participate in
state-required standardized assessments.
Your student’s district may require additional information.
School districts must post this three-page form on the district website and include it in district
student handbooks.
To best support school district planning, please submit this form to the student’s school no later
For students who enroll after a statewide testing window begins, please submit the form within two
A new refusal form is required each year parents/guardians wish to opt the student out of statewide
my student is progressing academically.
Refusing to participate in statewide assessments may impact the school, district, and state’s
and district accountability calculations, my student will not be considered “proficient.”.
If my student is in high school, I understand that by signing this form my student will not have an
MCA score that could potentially save time and money by not having to take remedial, non-cr edit
If the bona fide religious beliefs of an adult or the parent, guardian or person in loco parentis of
6, Part B], the adult or the child shall be exempt from the requirements.
immunization requirements, the person may attend the college, university, school or facility without
130A-152 contrary to my bona fide religious beliefs and request, as permitted by the law, an
exemption from the immunization requirements of your institution for my undersigned minor child
under my legal care or guardianship.
Structured English Immersion (SEI) Program: A language acquisition program for English learners at
English, but with curriculum and a presentation designed for pupils who are learning English.
English Language Mainstream (ELM): A language acquisition program for English learners at the
intermediate or higher levels of English language proficiency.
Students receive any additional support needed to recoup academic deficits that may have been
incurred while learning English as a second language and be reclassified as fluent English
Dual-Language Immersion (DLI) Program: Also referred to as Two-Way Immersion.
speakers of English and native speakers of Spanish, with the goals of high academic achievement,
student to which all of the following apply: (1) is enrolled in grades six through twelve,
inclusive; and (2) has been enrolled in a U.S.
level, as determined by the English language development test; and (4)For students in grades six
through nine, inclusive, has scored at the “Standard Not Met” level on the prior year administration
of the CAASPP ELA.
An English learner (EL) student (1) is enrolled in grades 3-12, (2) has been enrolled in a (3) has
scored at the intermediate English language development (4) For students in grades or fifth year at
may have for full participation Additionally, LTELs are monitored for specific language needs and
may be candidates Development (AALD) course offered at middle and high school settings.
needs.
counseling and core.
Parents/guardians may choose a language acquisition program that best suits their child.
possible.
(20 U.S.C.
Section 6312[e][3][A][viii][III]); EC Section 310[a]) We are required to provide a Structured
instruction.
of the Local Control Accountability Plan.
(EC Section 52062) If interested in a different program from those listed above, please contact the
Parents of English learners have a right to decline or opt their children out of the school
language acquisition program.
(20 U.S.C Section 6312[e][3][A][viii]) However, school districts remain obligated to provide the
is not made, and offer the parent programs and services to consider at that time.
Codes used to identify radiation therapy and physician-administered chemotherapy can be found in the
Appendix.
Patients identified as having lung, colorectal, or breast cancer in 2011 are included in the study.
These patients were assigned according to the following hierarchy:.
Patients were followed from 2010 through 2014 or until their departure from the data, whichever
occurred first.
same membership ID.
subscriber’s employment, change of plan (including entering Medicare), turning age 65, or long-term
disability.
While many patients in the study were protected by OOP maximum features embedded in their insurance,
for 2011-2013, we capped annual OOP costs at a maximum comparable to that set by the Affordable Care
Act for 2014, when the OOP maximum first became mandatory.
The peer-reviewed protocol will represent the agreed plan for the Continuous Update on breast cancer
survivors.
Should departure from the agreed plan be considered necessary at a later stage, this must be agreed
by the WCRF/AICR Secretariat and the reasons documented.
Comprometo-me neste ato pela exatidão dos dados fornecidos e assumo integralmente a responsabilidade
esses dados.
Assumo igualmente neste ato o compromisso de comunicar a essa seguradora por escrito e de imediato,
qualquer alteração cadastral na referida conta bancária que impossibilite o cumprimento tempestivo
implica em prévio reconhecimento de cobertura do sinistro e/ou beneficio por parte da Bradesco Vida
e Previdência S.A.
e/ou Bradesco Seguros e não obriga, automaticamente, a seguradora a efetuar o depósito ora
politicamente expostas os agentes públicos que desempenham ou tenham desempenhado, nos últimos 5
de seu relacionamento próximo.
I - Os detentores de mandatos eletivos dos Poderes Executivo e Legislativo da União;.
III - Os membros do Conselho Nacional de Justiça, do Supremo Tribunal Federal e dos Tribunais
Ministério Público junto ao Tribunal de Contas da União;.
VI - Os governadores de Estado e do Distrito Federal, os presidentes de Tribunal de Justiça, de
Assembleia Legislativa e de Câmara Distrital, e os presidentes de Tribunal e de Conselho de Contas
2 - Pessoas politicamente expostas estrangeiras, são consideradas aquela que exercem ou exerceram
importantes funções públicas em um país estrangeiro; por exemplo, chefes de Estado e de Governo,
políticos de alto nível, altos servidores dos poderes públicos, magistrados ou militares de alto
nível, dirigentes de empresas públicas ou dirigentes de partidos políticos.
• All full- and part-time students, whether living on campus, or off campus must register their
vehicle with the college within 24 hours of their arrival to Luther.
• The college vehicle registration fee is $220.00 per academic year for students living on campus,
Temporary parking permits are available for $2.00 per day.
Limited “Reduced lot” permits are available for $120.00, inquire at the Welcome/Information Center
in the Union; some restrictions apply.
I agree to abide by all rules and regulations regarding the privilege of having a motor vehicle
Permits are not transferable and expire in August of the current academic year.
Luther College assumes no responsibility or liability for loss from or damage on any personal motor
The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid is requesting that you verify the last day of
attendance or engagement for the student referenced below.
According to the Office of Registration & Records, the student has dropped the course after census
and is receiving a “W” grade for the course.
Federal regulations require that certain students who do not successfully complete a course (by
receiving grades of F, U, W, IN, NR, or LA) be required to prove they began attendance.
repay unearned funds.
If you do not have attendance records, please provide the last day of participation based on the
student’s engagement in your course (turning in homework, taking a quiz, etc.) If you taught your
course via distance education, please provide the last date where you can best determine the
Your immediate attention to this request will be greatly appreciated.
If necessary, the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid will contact you to verify the accuracy
of this document.
Faculty/instructors with questions may contact Jamie Pendergrass (jfpender@ncsu.edu) with questions
or concerns.
4.  Forman DE., Rich MW., Alexander KP., Susane Z., Maurer MS., et al.
Zoccali C (2002) Cardiorenal risk as a new frontier of nephrology: research needs and areas for
intervention.
Nephrolo Dial Transplant 2002; 17: 50-54.  6.
J Nat Cancer Inst 2014:106.  7.  Plana JC., Galderisi M., Barac A., Ewer MS., Ky B., et al.
Expert consensus for multimodality imaging evaluation of adult patients during and after cancer
therapy: a report from the American Society of Echocardiography and the European Association of
J Am Soc Echocardiography 2014; 27: 911-939.  8.
Lipshultz SE., Adams MJ., Colan SD., Constine LS., Herman EH., et al.
Long-term cardiovascular toxicity in children, adolescents, and young adults who receive cancer
therapy: pathophysiology, course, monitoring, management, prevention, and research directions: a
scientific statement from the American Heart Association.
Expert consensus for multi-modality imaging evaluation of cardiovascular complications of
J Am Soc Echocardiography 2013; 26:1013-1032.
This information is being distributed to you for personal reference.
address every aspect of a clinical situation.
Physicians and patients should not rely on this information in making health care decisions.
Each benefit plan contains its own specific CD Provisions for coverage, limitations, and exclusions
as stated in the Member’s Evidence of Coverage (EOC)/Summary of Benefits (SB).
The benefit information in this Coverage Summary is based on existing national coverage policy,
however, Local Coverage Determinations (LCDs) may exist and compliance with these policies is
Policy, Medical Benefit Drug Policy, and/or Coverage Determination Guideline (CDG).
In the absence of a Medicare National Coverage Determination (NCD), Local Coverage Determination
(LCD), or other Medicare coverage guidance, CMS allows a Medicare Advantage Organization (MAO) to
authoritative evidence (Medicare IOM Pub.
No.  100-16, Ch.  4, §90.5).
I certify that I have thoughtfully calculated the amount requested above to meet dollar amount
requested is influenced by the needs of my individual household available to me.
parent information, and the date Student Aid Report (SAR).
I understand that in most cases, I will be awarded dollar amount requested above, to be disbursed
Mail, and that said funding will not be processed until I ha.
somnolence as a side effect is reproducible in susceptible individuals (White and Rumbold 1988).
Sedation is a com- mon side effect of the traditional antipsychotics, with chlorpromazine and
thioridazine somewhat more sedating than haloperidol.
frequent reports of sedation with risperidone, olanzapine, sertindole and quetiapine (Monti et al.
2016).
The sed- ation associated with these agents is most likely associated with their known effects on
histaminic receptors.
Doxepin, a sedating psychotropic agent with pro- nounced histamine (H-1) receptor antagonism exerts
at least part of its effects by antagonizing orexin (Krystal et al.
2013).
Suvorexant, is an orexin antagonist designed to lower waking arousal (Norman and Anderson 2016).
Currently, it is being heavily marketed as a hypnotic (Rhyne and Anderson 2015).
As based on performance and driving tests, this agent is known to produce a dose-related next day
Clinically these agents are sometimes used off-label for their sedative effects.
Among antihypertensives in wide use, the complaints of tiredness, fatigue and daytime sleepiness are
(Dimsdale 1992).
use may occur secondary to disturbed sleep or direct action of the drug.
carvedilol, labetalol) are also associated with reported fatigue and somnolence (3–11%).
Alpha-1 antagonists (e.g.  terazosin, prazosin) are sometimes associated with transient sedation.
Prazosin, a norepinephine antagonist, has demonstrated value in treating insomnia associated with
PTSD nightmares (Raskind et al.
Clonidine is sometimes utilized to treat the agitation and insomnia that result from using
2011).
that likely affects anxiety/mood symptoms via the M2 and/or M1 receptors of the CNS [19].
There is clinical evidence that other antimuscarinic agents (e.g., promethazine), can also provide
Both classes of drugs have been used in millions of patients over five decades and are known to be
safe.
In addition, the high prevalence of use strongly suggests that both classes of medicines have been
coincidentally and/or concurrently used in the same patient(s) as separate prescriptions and/or OTC
drugs, for instance a prescription beta blocker for hypertension and a prescription or OTC
Prior to this open label study, case series resulting from physician- sponsored studies of
anxiety.
by a psychiatrist [7-9].
were treated successfully [10].
In the present physician-sponsored open label study we document a trial of a compounded combination
deemed as responders.
One can reasonably assert that this beneficial anxiolytic effect might have been enhanced even
further under three study design conditions.
First, if the inclusion criteria had required each patient to have a high anxiety score prior to the
during the procedure.
Of the six responders, two subjects had low baseline anxiety scores (i.e., patient F at 4 points and
A higher baseline inclusion parameter could have increased the differential prior to vs.
during the EMG procedure.
Second, there might not have been a sufficiently long waiting period between the drug administration
and the procedure.
One can reasonably assert that if the time interval between dosing and the procedure was increased
magnitude of the response could have been greater.
initial assessment by the medical provider and the subsequent medical procedure.
benzodiazepine either swallowed intact or pre-dissolved in water, and then have him/her wait (e.g.,
30 + min.) for an anxiolytic effect to be acknowledged by the patient.
But, some physicians and dentists might be under time constraints or might not be willing to oblige
the patient this waiting period.
This would not be an obstacle if either the drug has a rapid onset of effect or the patient were to
pre-treat themselves immediately prior to arrival at the physician’s office, for instance 30-60
minutes in advance.
Even under the conditions of this study that the authors consider might have been sub-optimal, this
drug combo delivered by the oral mucosal route provided a rapid onset effect as a PRN medication.
This anxiolytic benefit may be useful in treating anticipatory anxiety either in-office or prior to
The compounded medicine contained 25 mg of atenolol and 0.2 mg of scopolamine HBr.
compliance with trusts and articles of incorporation, and for protection of assets held by
charitable trusts and public benefit corporations…” (Gov.
Code, § 12598.) My office is tasked with the authority to “investigate transactions and
To that end, my office conducted an investigation of ICANN and its role in approving the transfer of
follows:.
Internet is an international network of networks, owned by no single nation, individual or
organization” and as such, ICANN will “pursue the charitable and public purposes of lessening the
burdens of government and.
O Sr (a) XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX está sendo consultado (a) no sentido de autorizar a utilização de dados
clínicos, laboratoriais, imagens fotográficas e lâminas histológicas de seu caso clínico que se
encontram em sua ficha de prontuário (médico, odontológico, fisioterapêutico, de enfermagem) para
finalidades científicas (apresentação em congressos ou publicação do caso em revista científica
como) “Relato de caso”.
Inserir os riscos e benefícios.
A sua autorização é voluntária e a recusa em autorizar não acarretará qualquer penalidade ou
modificação na forma em que é atendida pelos médicos assistentes e pesquisadores.
O relato do caso estará à sua disposição quando finalizado.
Seu nome ou o material que indique sua participação não será liberado sem a sua permissão.  A Sra.
Este termo de consentimento encontra-se impresso em duas vias, sendo que uma cópia será arquivada
pelo pesquisador responsável, e a outra será fornecida à Sra.
verdadeiras e de minha inteira responsabilidade e que nada omiti em relação ao meu estado de saúde,
e de meu cônjuge, tendo respondido de próprio punho ao questionário de saúde.
Estou ciente que perderei o direito às coberturas contratadas, bem como aos prêmios pagos, se vier a
de meu cônjuge segurado.
Declaro que recebi e aceito os termos das Condições Gerais e Especiais do Seguro e a segunda via
desta proposta de adesão, tomei conhecimento prévio e expresso conhecimento das suas disposições,
A qualquer momento, mediante solicitação ao MBM, poderei alterar meus beneficiários.
a)O registro deste plano na SUSEP não implica, por parte da Autarquia, incentivo ou recomendação a
sua comercialização.
www.susep.gov.br, por meio do número de seu registro na SUSEP, nome completo, CNPJ ou CPF.
faculdade de não renovar a Apólice na data de vencimento, sem devolução dos prêmios pagos nos termos
d)A aceitação do seguro estará sujeita à análise do risco.
www.mbmseguros.com.br.
Nome do Corretor: Becker Corretora de Seguros Ltda.
Declaro para os devidos fins que foram conferidos e estão corretos os dados constantes nesta
como os demais dados da contratação que correspondem às normas, tabelas e demais condições
estabelecidas pela MBM Seguradora S.A.
responsabilizando- me por eventual indenização a MBM Seguradora S.A.
Declaro, ainda, que o preenchimento do questionário de saúde, foi integralmente realizado pelo
eventual indenização ao MBM na hipótese de condenação da mesma decorrente do preenchimento incorreto
Figure 1.
publication.
Interpretive notes: boxes represent the interquartile range (25th to 75th percentile) and contain
the median value (horizontal line) and average value (horizontal dash).
Whis- kers extend 1.5(cid:6) the length of the interquartile range.
Category notes: medical includes 5 journals published by the American Heart Association plus
Neuro-Oncology, published by Duke University Press.
Physiological Society.
Multidisciplinary sciences includes Sci- ence Magazine.
Social sciences includes 10 journals published by Sage Publications.
See Table 1 for treatment allocation.
Free access to scientific articles increases readership (as measured by article downloads) and
reaches a broader audience (as measured by unique IP addresses) but has no effect on article
citations within the first 3 yr after publication.
These results are consistent with earlier trial reports on the physiology literature (14, 15) and
The increase in full-text downloads for open access articles during their first year after
publication suggests that the primary benefit to the nonsubscriber commu- nity is in browsing, as
opposed to printing or saving, which would have been indicated by a commensurate increase in PDF
downloads.
The decrease in abstract views suggests a reader preference for the full docu- ment when available.
are based on unobtrusive observational methods and may suffer from the failure to adequately control
for confounding variables (8, 13).
such as article type, discipline, and funding source, (9), for example, none were able to control
that are unobservable to the researcher.
Article downloads and citations measure two different dimensions of scientific knowledge transfer.
The first measures general interest in a particular new piece of knowledge; the second measures the
Most article downloads take place within the first few months after publication (17, 18), suggesting
within a field and secondly to serve as a source document for future citation.
Article downloads retrieved shortly after publication have been shown to predict future citations,
although their strength of prediction is relatively low (17, 19, 20).
To generate new scientific knowledge, in most cases, one must have access to equipment, materials
(21).
communicate them clearly and coherently.
indexed journal in order to be visible.
categoryeffects.OA,openaccess;sub,subscription.Medicalincludes 5 journals published by the American
Physiological Society.
Multidisciplinary sciences includes Science Magazine.
See Table 1 for treatment allocation.
Banco do Brasil S.A .
( Ordem de pagamento com autorização do gerente financeiro).
USCIS cannot process credit card payments without an authorized signature.
By completing this transaction, you agree that you have paid for a government service and that the
refundable, regardless of any action USCIS takes on an application, petition or request.
In cavity wall construction, the prescribed air space acts as an insulating layer in addition to the
Thermal performance of the system can be further enhanced by placing insulation materials in the
cavity.
perlite and vermiculite, and organic cellular materials such as polystyrene, polyurethane,
These insulation types are manufactured in the form of rigid boards, granular fills and foams.
Each of these types, if properly used, will result in a more thermally efficient wall system.
properties should be considered including water absorption, combustibility, density, insect
The following criteria can be used for the selection of insulation materials for brick masonry
In cavity wall construction, the prescribed air space acts as an insulating layer in addition to the
masonry units.
Thermal performance of the system can be further enhanced by placing insulation materials in the
Insulation materials used in brick masonry cavity walls include inorganic cellular materials such as
perlite and vermiculite, and organic cellular materials such as polystyrene, polyurethane,
polyisocyanurate and foams.
These insulation types are manufactured in the form of rigid boards, granular fills and foams.
Each of these types, if properly used, will result in a more thermally efficient wall system.
Although the most important characteristic for insulation is its thermal resistance, other
properties should be considered including water absorption, combustibility, density, insect
resistance and ease of installation.
The following criteria can be used for the selection of insulation materials for brick masonry
cavity walls:.
2.Thermal insulating efficiency must not be impaired nor degrade over time due to retained moisture
from any source, i.e., wind-driven rain or vapor condensation.
food value to vermin and meeting the building code requirements for flame resistance.
4.Granular fill materials must be capable of supporting their own weight without settlement to
assure that no portion of the wall is without insulation and allow moisture to drain from the
5.Foam insulation materials must not shrink with age to assure that no portion of the wall is
and allow air or water movement around the insulation.
Table 3 shows various properties of insulation materials used in brick masonry cavity walls.
These are determined in accordance with ASTM C 177 Test Method for Steady-State Heat Flux
measured at various temperatures.
Due to the large number of types of insulation, and even larger number of manufacturers, Table 3
lists only a few representative values of physical properties.
In all cases, the aged or stabilized value is the one that should be used in design.
Individual manufacturers should be consulted for design values and other properties of their
specific materials and their applications.
Conforme §4º, art.
DADOS DO REQUERENTE: é a pessoa, física ou jurídica, que tenha interesse na Remissão de crédito
38.F do Código Tributário do Município de Contagem, ou o representante legal, formalmente
constituído.
CPF: Informe o número do Cadastro de Pessoa Física.
ENDEREÇO: Informe os dados do endereço completo do Requerente que será utilizado para envio de
comunicados, notificações e/ou decisões.
TELEFONE: Informe ao menos um número de telefone para contato, preferencialmente fixo.
Marque a opção correspondente.
portador da patologia ser cônjuge ou filho(a) do proprietário do imóvel.
GRAU DE PARENTESCO: Marque a opção correspondente.
DADOS DO IMÓVEL: Preencha campos para identificação precisa do imóvel.
LOTE/QUADRA/BAIRRO: Conforme dados de Cartório de Registro de Imóveis ou do Comprovante de
Titularidade.
MATRÍCULA CRI: Número da matrícula do registro do imóvel.
SOLICITAÇÃO TERMO DE RESPONSABILIDADE: Leia atentamente o termo de responsabilidade e assinale a
opção que formaliza a solicitação de Remissão dos créditos tributários.
Anyone identified as a close contact of the diagnosed individual will receive a separate letter
detailing their next steps.
Everyone in the class is not a close contact and subject to quarantine.
The class will remain open unless another person in the classroom is diagnosed with COVID‐19 and
public health identifies the school as the source of that person’s infection.
Childcare center/school will remain open based upon the quarantine of all known close contacts and
appropriate building cleaning/disinfection being completed.
While many of these symptoms can be seen with other conditions such as allergies, we ask that you
rather than not being able to taste.
child’s doctor for evaluation/testing, and keep your child home from school.
your doctor about getting your child tested based on the potential exposure in the classroom.
If you do not have a provider, you can go to this website for current testing options and
locations:.
Based on this information, you may choose to keep your child home out of an abundance of caution.
If you choose to do so, please contact at your school so that they can help manage the transition to
online instruction for your child.
Eu, sócio-titular da , ambos acima qualificados, autorizo a pessoa igualmente qualificada a
solicitar à Agência da Receita Estadual - ARE, antes identificada, o cadastramento ou alteração
cadastral da referida empresa e a receber extratos quanto à regularidade do seu estabelecimento e
dos respectivos sócios e quanto à posi de débito de processo regular ou pendente, relatório dos
autenticidade da documentação apresentada perante a Secretaria da Fazenda.
automated processing, including profiling, where there is a legal or similarly significant effect on
the person (the regulation prohibits automated processing where there is no meaningful human
human involvement in the decision, would be considered covered under the regulation (i.e., assigning
data, i.e., test results).
comply with exercise of rights of access, rectification, erasure, restriction of processing, or
portability (often the case for research entities that hold only pseudonymised data).
As you know if you ever checked into a hotel or rented a car, the first thing you are asked for is a
credit card, which is imprinted and later used to pay your bill.
This is an advantage for both you and the hotel or car rental company since it makes checkout
your insurance company processes your claim.
We simply maintain your Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, Flex plan or checking account
other balances.
If you are not aware of your insurance benefits, including your deductible and co-insurance amounts,
debit card or check.
We will do everything possible to maximize your insurance benefits.
for your balances.
This also will have a positive effect on the environment.
This payment process will not compromise your ability to dispute a charge or question your insurance
As we continue to strive to protect the security of your personal information, your credit card
Industry (PCI) compliance using Point-to-Point Encryption (P2PE) which involves a combination of
secure devices, applications, and processes that encrypts the card data from the first interaction
at the point of sale up until the data reaches the secure payment processing environment.
I authorize Chicago Cosmetic Surgery and Dermatology, LLC (CCSD) to securely maintain my credit card
account information and to charge my account in full for any outstanding balances after my insurance
carrier has processed my claim(s).
I agree to inform CCSD of any changes regarding my credit card account number and/or expiration
This authorization will remain in effect until revoking in writing by the cardholder which will
apply to future dates of service only.
There will be at $35.00 fee for non-sufficient funds.
Let your doctor know if your blood pressure is equal to or more than 140 over 90.
deficiência abaixo:.
relates to bioethical codes (Baker, 2015; Tartzian et al., 2015), as well as proactive institutional
engage- ment to improve responsiveness (Fenton et al., 2015).
bioethics, given radical changes in biomedical research and practice to come (Grady, 2013).
This is particularly important given the rise of Big Data, as well as new biomedical methodologies
such as crowdsourcing applied to biomedical research (Callaghan, 2014a; 2014b).
Third, explicit engagement with issues relating to channels of communication around biotech de-
velopments is needed, in order to ensure narratives are not ‘captured’ by those with agendas
propriate biomedicine vocabularies.
These practical initiatives capture the spirit of citizen science theory (Bonney et al., 2009) in
terms of increasing responsiveness of populations to issues which affect them, or democratisation of
both scientific discovery and its scrutiny.
Theory related to wicked problems, or problems at the nexus of human values and uncertainty (Rittel
come in the biomedical research landscape.
namely, to empower the crowd to engage with important scientific issues such as genetic engi-
This entails a need to build synergies between citizen science theory and other bodies of theory
such as informing science, which offer an emergent body of research specifically focused on in-
forming stakeholders.
A: Under the order, a business cannot require workers to leave their homes unless the workers are
“necessary to sustain or protect life or to conduct minimum basic operations.” Workers considered
workers” provided in sections 8 and 9 of the order.
All other in-person business operations must be suspended.
In determining whether certain in-person operations are permitted under the order, businesses that
Businesses must tailor their in-person provision of goods and services accordingly.
in-person work must be done in accordance with the mitigation measures required under section 5 of
the order.
site to service non-critical infrastructure needs such as filing, answering phones, or other
Any employees that are working on-site must maintain social distancing in compliance with the
Governor’s Order.
Failure to voluntarily comply with this request will result in these complaints being forwarded to
local law enforcement agencies for enforcement action.
We appreciate your prompt attention to this matter.
Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia do Rio Grande do Sul Campus Viamão Instituto Federal de Educação,
Fig.
1.1: Year-on-year growth rates of expenditures on cancer medicines and health care
3 Fig.
1.2: Comparison of expenditures on cancer medicines and health based on per-capita expenditures, by
cases......................................................................................................................................4
1.3: Points along the value chain and product life-cycles for price setting and management
3.1: Cost structure of pharmaceutical and life science industry, by company type and year
.......................................
20 Fig.
..........................................................................................................
22 Fig.
3.3: Timeline of price planning activities for sofosbuvir
...........................................................................................................
23 Fig.
3.4: Threshold analysis of revenue return, by R&D expenses and years since product launch
25 Fig.
26 Fig.
...............................................
................................................................................................................................................
31 Fig.
3.8: Dimensions that may be considered for determining the value of medicines
34 Fig.
...........................................................
37 Fig.
..........................................................................
42 Fig.
54 Fig.
4.3: Median prices of EML cancer medicines, by country income and cancer incidence
..............................................
57 Fig.
......................................
4.5: Costs of cancer medicines (a) without and (b) with adjustment for purchasing power
4.6: Cumulative real pharmaceutical price inflation in (a) Australia and US with year 1981 as the
61 Fig.
63 Fig.
4.8: Availability of cancer medicines in national formularies of non-European countries in 2016, by
country ranked by GDP per capita in 2016
69 Fig.
4.9: Availability of cancer medicines in national formularies of European countries in 2014, by
country ranked by GDP per capita in 2016
70 Fig.
areas .
Describing – by clearly defining what you are talking about, what specifically was involved, where
it took place and under what circumstances.
considering other viewpoints.
Analyzing – examining and then explaining how something is, including comparing and contrasting
It’s important to think of critiquing as ‘neutral’ and not negative.  5.
6.
Evaluating – can include commenting on the degrees of success and failure of something, or the value
of something The ability to analyze and creatively adapt to new situations is at the heart of
critical thinking.
John Dewey would agree, as from his early work, we have increased our sense of the pragmatic basis
of human thought (its instrumental nature), and especially its grounding in actual human purposes,
Dewey (1910) also discussed critical thinking in terms of reflective thinking, which is an
intellectual component.
Students must, therefore, be taught to examine, poke, question, and reflect on what they have
Dewey also stated that schools should have an intimate relationship with the community it serves.
From the review of the research concerning critical thinking and what components are considered
5-step, critical thinking teaching process as outlined in Table 2.
developers, led to the selection of easy to remember letters that describe each step’s process.
By participating in Northside’s Skip-A-Payment program, you request that Northside FCU defer your
loan payments as indicated.
you choose to skip your payment; 2) Finance charges will continue to accrue at the rate provided in
your original loan agreement during and after this time; 3) Deferring your loan payment will result
in you having to pay higher total FINANCE CHARGES than if you made your payment s as originally
extra payments after your loan would otherwise be paid off; 5) You will be required to resume your
subject to NFCU approval; 8) If your payment is made through Payroll Deduction, your payment will be
I hereby authorize All About Trucks to charge the credit card indicated in this authorization form
according to the terms outlined here.
the amount indicated on it.
1.
Considerando - Ser direito de recusar o atendimento ou procedimentos propostos para meu tratamento
de deixar as dependências do hospital, mesmo sabendo das possíveis consequências e riscos de tal
atitude.
Considerando - que alta a pedido não constitui ato que tenha sido indicado ou praticado pela equipe
médica, mas sim um ato livre e soberano da autonomia do paciente, atendido o disposto no Termo de
3.
Considerando – Que o exercício, por parte do paciente, deste seu direito, a partir do momento em que
deixar o hospital, isenta o médico e a Instituição da responsabilidade por quaisquer consequências
4.
linguagem acessível ao doente, o diagnóstico, suas condições clínicas, possibilidades terapêuticas e
as consequências da interrupção da assistência médica, especificando possíveis riscos e danos.
5.
Considerando – Que a alta a pedido desobriga o Médico de dar continuidade ao tratamento, bem como de
emitir receita, solicitação de exames e encaminhamento para outro estabelecimento.
vontade.
Declaro que fui devidamente informado (a) e esclarecido (a) quanto à situação da minha saúde e
decido deixar de ser assistido neste hospital, em razão de:
_________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________ A condição é boa.
cancers expected is statistically significant (p<0.05).
in the SEER 9 areas, divided by the number of cancers expected in this population, calculated using
A second (or multiple) primary cancer is a new cancer that is biologically distinct from the
original cancer.
Whether a cancer is a new primary or a recurrence is important because it deter- mines prognosis and
treatment.
The risk of developing a second primary cancer varies by the type of cancer first diagnosed
number of cancer cases (O/E) among cancer survivors in popu- lation-based cancer registries are used
to describe the risk for a subsequent cancer diagnosis, with the number expected based on cancer
occurrence in the general population.
As a whole, can- cer survivors have a small increased risk of additional cancers, although risk is
higher for those with a history of childhood can- cer (Figure 15, page 25), as well as for adult
I authorize Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey / Program in American Language Studies
(Newark Campus), IELTS Test Center US 379, to charge my credit card the amount as indicated above
website and IELTS application.
test or request a transfer within five weeks of the test date, unless I provide appropriate medical
To complete this Employer Notification Form please be sure to include your name and complete mailing
information (Mr./Mrs./Dr./etc.) to ensure correct preparation and mailing of the employer
You may request that the notification of your certification be sent to your principal, your
information.
- Registrants who join MRN within the two weeks following the conference may deduct the difference
between the member and non-member rate from their dues payment.
- Organizations that register 3 or more individuals may deduct $10 per registration from the total
due.
To receive discount, please make copies of this form and submit all registrations together listing
Refunds: All requests must be in writing and received on or prior to June 22.
No refunds will be made after this date.
RSVP: Fax or mail this form to: MRN, c/o Mariner Management, PO Box 1640, Columbia, MD 21044 Fax:
requirements for eligibility by demonstrating receipt of SNAP/TANF benefits.
Confirmation of your benefits will be sent directly to Serving Our Children.
While this release form is designed to assist us with obtaining necessary information, completing
this form does not guarantee information will be received by SOC in a complete and timely manner.
Please know, delays occur when requesting information from the District of Columbia and until SOC
necessary for you to follow‐up directly with the District of Columbia to obtain the necessary
The person listed below is applying and/or renewing their D.C.  Opportunity Scholarship application.
In order to prove eligibility, they need to provide their SNAP/TANF benefits income information
received from the District of Columbia.
District of Columbia:.
I hereby request and authorize the District of Columbia to provide Serving Our Children any and all
information regarding benefits I am currently receiving from the District of Columbia, and to permit
portions desired by them of my file to determine my eligibility for the D.C.
By my signature on this document, I hereby authorize AMEDEX Insurance Company (Bermuda) to directly
debit the credit card that I have identified above for the payment of insurance premiums for my
I understand that, if there are any changes to my AMEDEX Insurance Company (Bermuda) life insurance
I further understand that a true and correct copy of this Agreement will be forwarded to my credit
card company and, by my signature on this agreement, I request and instruct them to allow AMEDEX
Insurance Company (Bermuda) to directly debit my credit card account for the payment of life
insurance premiums until such time as I instruct otherwise in writing.
for my AMEDEX life insurance policy is rejected or declined for any reason, it will become my
may lapse, be terminated and/or cancelled.
1.
oportunidade de tirar dúvidas.
2.  Entendo que tenho a opção de participar deste estudo.
Tenho a liberdade de sair a qualquer momento, sem precisar informar um motivo, sem afetar meus
direitos ou tratamento (ou direitos ou tratamento do paciente).
Entendo que partes de meu prontuário médico (ou do prontuário médico do paciente) podem ser
acessadas por pessoas envolvidas no estudo.
Dou permissão para que acessem o prontuário.  4.
monitoramento.
Dou permissão para que os dados coletados a meu respeito neste estudo (com a remoção de minhas
informações pessoais) sejam usados por pesquisadores de todo o mundo.
Lung cancer and colorectal cancer patients had significant use of hospital inpatient services soon
after diagnosis, which suggests that many patients underwent inpatient surgery in months 0 or 1.
spending.
The average monthly total healthcare spending started to drop two to three months after diagnosis.
may reflect the varying approaches used to treat individual survivors.
The pattern of spending by category shown in Figures 2a-2c illustrates an “aggregate” patient
Over the 47- month period following diagnosis, patients who we could track had average cumulative
for lung cancer.
The cumulative figures by month since diagnosis are represented in the left axis using solid lines.
Relative to total average spending of $101,000 to $282,000 for the 4 year period, the patient OOP of
We note that patient contributions to premium would be in addition to the patient OOP costs.
Premium contributions averaged approximately $1,100 per employee per year for single coverage, and
over $5,000 for family coverage in 2016.20 Patients may face other costs not reflected in these data
Despite the well-delineated process for recommending drugs for coverage, Canada has the second
highest drug spending in the world.
insurers, the actual negotiated prices and discounts are kept confidential.
Coverage for cancer drugs varies by province and insurer, both in terms of formulary decisions and
out-of- pocket costs.
The Patient Medicine Prices Review Board (PMPRB), a consumer protection agency, has the authority to
impose sanctions and price reductions for patented products deemed excessively priced.
However, the PMPRB is hobbled in its ability to keep Canada’s drug spending low.
PMPRB allows companies to set prices for new patented drugs up to the highest amount paid for other
manufacturers to avoid lowering prices for older patented drugs.
countries in the world, which raises the ceiling for Canadian prices.47.
In 2010 the German government passed the Pharmaceutical Market Restructuring Act, or
Germany’s compulsory health insurance system is publicly financed from wage taxes.
Tightly regulated, independent, competing, non-.
chefia imediata, por escrito, com antecedência mínima de 3 (três) dias úteis antes da data de início
freqüência ou o descumprimento dos critérios de desistência citados implicará em impedimento de
da atividade;.
Grave (SRAG) e esteja, preferencialmente, até o sétimo dia do início dos sintomas (podendo ser até o
Next, select out-of-the-money call options with strike prices > K 0.
Start with the call strike immediately higher than K 0 and move to successively higher strike
prices, excluding call options that have a bid price of zero.
As with the puts, once two consecutive call options are found to have zero bid prices, no calls with
higher strikes are considered.
(Note that the 2225 call option is not included despite having a non-zero bid price.).
b) Sendo o internamento decorrente de facto de terceiro que envolva obrigação de indemnizar,
comprometo-me a restituir à CPAS o benefício que me for concedido logo que indemnizado e a avisar a
CPAS desse facto, nos termos do Artigo 5.º do Regulamento do Benefício de apoio à recuperação.
Note: Cancer types are ranked in descending order of median age at diagnosis.
Sources: Age distribution based on 2011-2012 data from the North American Association of Central
Cancer Registries and excludes incidence data from Arkansas and Nevada.
Median age at diagnosis and 5-year relative survival are based on cases diagnosed during 2008-2012
Cancer Statistics Review, 1975-2012.57 2016 estimated cases from Cancer Statistics, 2016.116.
sexual counseling, marital counseling, or psychotherapy.45.
Some targeted therapy drugs can also cause an extensive rash over the face, neck, and chest.
Most skin reactions to radiation slowly go away after treatment, although skin may remain darker
than it was before.
WHEREAS, on March 16, 2020 the Town of Dedham, through the Board of Selectmen, Town Administrator
and, as such, has declared a Local State of Emergency; and.
3 - Em caso de contestação por parte do Portador, a Agência é responsável pela apresentação deste
comprove a identidade do Portador.
Esses documentos podem ser solicitados a qualquer momento pela administradora do cartão de crédito e
hypnotics.
These medications have been associated with reports of disruptive sleep related behaviors including
of allowing appropriate sleep time, using only prescribed doses and avoiding the combination of BzRA
hypnotics with alcohol, other sedatives, and sleep restriction.
General comments about sedatives/hypnotics:.
These medications are not FDA approved for insomnia and their efficacy for this indication is not
well estab- lished.
The use of two antimalarials simultaneously, especially when the antimalarials have different
mechanisms of action, has the potential for inhib- iting the development of resistance to either of
the components.
The efficacy of a combination of a 4-aminoquinoline drug (either chloroquine or amo- diaquine) with
sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine has been reviewed (43).
The results of this review sug- gested that the addition of either chloroquine or amodiaquine to SP
marginally improved parasitological clearance (compared with SP alone).
The studies reviewed were mostly done in areas and at times when both SP and chloroquine/amodi-
aquine retained a fair amount of efficacy, and it is not clear from these studies how well such a
combination would act in areas where one of the components was significantly compromised.
Additionally, to date, there are no data to suggest whether this slightly improved clearance would.
Resistance to antimalarial drugs has been described for two of the four species of malaria parasite
that naturally infect humans, P.
falciparum and P.  vivax.  P.
graphical distribution of resistance to any single antimalarial drug varies greatly (Table 3).
P.
primaquine (44, 45).
Chloroquine-resistant P.  falciparum malaria has.
Bold “Y” indicates agents to which significant resistance occurs in a given area (although actual
South-East Asia, where MQ resistance, while very frequent in some limited areas, is infrequent or
absent in most others).
vehicle with the college within 24 hours of their arrival to Luther.
Temporary parking permits are available for $2.00 per day.
• A student parking sticker entitles a registered vehicle to be parked in a designated student or
general parking area, according to permit, if and when there is a parking space available; it does
while in attendance at Luther College.
I understand that this privilege may be revoked if I fail to abide by motor vehicle regulations.
Table 6.
Medicare spending per patient in the first year after diagnosis (columns 2-5) and fractions of
patients (columns 6-9) by stage at diagnosis based on California beneficiaries diagnosed in
Spending estimates are based on Medicare fee-for-service patients only and are adjusted for
inflation to 2013 dollars.
For prostate cancer stages I and II are combined due to small numbers for stage I.
Medicare spending per patient in the last year of life (columns 2-5) and fractions of patients
(columns 6-9) by stage at diagnosis based on California beneficiaries who were diagnosed in
2007-2011 and died in 2007-2012, as reported in [Schrag, 2015].
Estimates include the full year of Medicare spending prior to and including the month of death,
Spending estimates are based on Medicare fee-for-service patients only and are adjusted for
inflation to 2013 dollars.
For prostate cancer stages I and II are combined due to small numbers for stage I.
Table 9.
diagnosis (third column) for malignant melanoma based on 2008 data as reported in [Styperek and
The incidence rates are given for stages I-IV and add up to 100%.
Among those faculty participants who provided suggestions and feedback in an open-ended question,
96.6 % expressed very positive feedback.
hold a future mentoring workshop targeted on all mentoring strategies faculty may need.
paired t-tests were run and analyzed.
Table 4 shows mean scores and standard deviations (SDs) from the Pre-Workshop Faculty Survey and the
Post-Workshop Faculty Survey, mean score.
This Conference Proceeding is brought to you for free and open access by the Management, Marketing
and MIS at Marshall Digital Scholar.
It has been accepted for inclusion in Management Faculty Research by an authorized administrator of
Marshall Digital Scholar.
For more information, please contactzhangj@marshall.edu.
 I request access through the Portal to the following types of health information: lists of my
visit.
 Some of my health information may not be available through the Portal.
If I want a copy of this information, I must complete PPMM’s authorization form and give it to PPMM.
PPMM is not responsible for disclosing my health information if I share my user ID or password, or I
 I understand that I may revoke this request for access at any time in writing and that I have a
right to receive a copy of this request for access upon request.
In addition to providing direct contribution towards the discovery of medical research, governments
in many countries have also implemented a range of indirect measures to incentivize R&D.
activities related to R&D (Table 4.5).
have provided considerable financial and non-financial contributions towards the R&D of cancer
medicines.
The pharmaceutical industry has also benefited greatly from the knowledge generated by public-sector
investments in R&D, and by having access to research supported by public funding at costs, if any,
claim to recover the full costs of R&D through setting high prices for medicines (340,341).
twice, for the hundreds of medicines developed at least with partial support from public resources
(340).
greater role in exercising more stringent pricing regulations, or simply, by imposing lower prices
for cancer medicines in order to realize a more direct financial return for public investment on
behalf of the tax-payers.
Another pertinent question is whether the ongoing push by research outputs from publicly-funded
universities have tilted the pharmaceutical industry at the expense of the tax-payers (342).
relationship between the government, industry and university (343).
This raises an important question: does the public have the right to expect governments to play a
greater role in exercising more stringent pricing regulations, or simply, by imposing lower prices
behalf of the tax-payers.
Another pertinent question is whether the ongoing push by research outputs from publicly-funded
universities have tilted the pharmaceutical industry at the expense of the tax-payers (342).
Who Qualifies.
qualifications standards listed in chart below, (chart used is based directly on child’s eligibility
Recreation Scholarship Application along with the required documentation may qualify.
Scholarships are limited to 3 classes per child per season, winter, spring, summer or fall.
All scholarship applications will be valid for one (1) year from the date they are submitted.
Proof of city/county residency will be required at the time of application.
parent/guardian of the named youth applicant.
• A current award letter determining FREE or REDUCED lunches (may be on letterhead from your school
district or the Kansas State Department of Education for the current school year and specifically
list the child(ren) eligible for assistance).
• SRS Forms, SSI payments, public assistance payments, court documentation of aid to child.
I also understand that deliberate misrepresentation of information subjects the applicant to being
I hereby certify that all of the above information is true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief.
The Lawrence Parks and Recreation Department reserves the right to request proof of any of the above
If an activity uses supplies, outside facilities or issues equipment that is not returnable,
de seu seguro disponível no site www.bbseguros.com.br.
With the opening and flue sizes known, Equation 4 may be used to calculate the minimum chimney
height to provide adequate draft in a properly designed, detailed and constructed assembly.
minimum required to produce an adequate draft.
Building code requirements previously discussed for minimum chimney heights are based solely on fire
safety considerations and must always be met or exceeded.
Step 1.
From Table 1 in Technical Notes 19 Revised select fireplace opening dimensions A and B and the
corresponding flue liner size, L and M.
Using Equation 1 calculate the Fireplace Opening Area, A o.
From Table 1 determine the Minimum Flue Area, A F, using L and M.
Based on the size of the flue selected, a preliminary damper size must be assumed.
At this point in the design process, it is only necessary to decide if the damper throat area to be
used will be equal to or twice the flue area.
Once this decision has been made the Inlet Loss Coefficient, K 2, may be determined.
If the damper throat area is equal to the flue area, K 2 is equal to 2.5.
The Termination Coefficient, K 3, may be selected using this information.
If no rain cap is used K 3 equals 0.0.
If a rain cap is set at a distance of D/2 (see Table 1 for equivalent diameter, D) above the
This information may be obtained from the manufacturer.
59 do código de Ética Médica e os artigos 6º III e 39º VI da Lei 8.078/90 do Código de Defesa do
Consumidor, que garantem ao paciente a plena informação sobre seu estado de saúde, eu, acima
____________________________________________________________________________________ cirurgia
cardíaca.
satisfatoriamente, em linguagem compreensível, permitindo o adequado entendimento, inclusive quanto
aos benefícios e/ou complicações potenciais e riscos no caso de não ser tomada nenhuma atitude
necessária a utilização de órteses, próteses e materiais especiais.
Sei também que poderá ser necessária transfusão de sangue, sobre a qual fui devidamente informado
Estou ciente que poderão ocorrer, além dos efeitos da anestesia, complicações cardiovasculares e
Estou ciente também quanto aos riscos, benefícios e alternativas de cada procedimento anestésico,
conforme Consentimento Livre e Esclarecido específico já assinado.
sangramentos, infecções, Nessa situação, serei avaliado e acompanhado pelo médico, sendo que
autorizo a realização de outro procedimento, exame ou tratamento em situações imprevistas que possam
daqueles inicialmente propostos; tal conduta para afastar os riscos prejudiciais à saúde e à vida.
Certifico que li este termo, ou que foi explicado pra mim, tendo sido explicado pelo meu médico
Pleno deste entendimento, autorizo a realização do procedimento proposto.
Circunstâncias de Emergência / Risco de Morte: Preencher este Consentimento Informado ‘‘Não
Obtido’’: Declaro que, devido ao estado clínico do paciente ou à emergência/risco de morte
identificado, não foi possível fornecer ao paciente as informações necessárias para obtenção deste
transfusão de hemocomponentes em quantidade suficiente para melhorar sua situação clínica do
Proper Sizing-Firebox dimensions should be selected so that the fire fills the combustion chamber
Careful consideration should be given to size of the fireplace opening best suited for the room in
which it is to be located.
warm the room.
In such a case, the firebox opening would require a larger flue area and consume larger amounts of
interior air even if exterior combustion air is provided.
Table 2 provides suggested widths of conventional fireplace openings appropriate for various room
sizes.
For example, a room with 300 ft2 (28 m2) of floor area is best served by a fireplace with an opening
30 in.
a Adapted from Book of Successful Fireplaces, 20th Edition.  b SI conversion: mm = in.  x 25.4.
c L and M are shown in Fig.
1 and are equal to outside dimensions of flue lining plus at least 1 in.  (25 mm).
Determine flue lining dimensions from Fig.  5.  L is greater than or equal to M.
d Angle sizes: A - 3 x 3 x 1/4 in., B-3 1/2 x 3 x 1/4 in., C-5 x 3 1/2 x 5/16 in.
When determining the height of a fireplace opening which incorporates an arch use the maximum height
to the arch soffit.
Information on arch design may be found in Technical Notes 31 Series.
The advantages of using RBM lintels are numerous, but include more efficient use of materials and
exposed brick rather than steel at the top of the opening.
RBM lintel design procedures are given in Technical Notes 17H.
If opening sizes other than those listed in Table 1 are used, information found in Technical Notes
31B Revised can be used for design of the loose steel angle lintel.
Simple.  Complete the It Fits.
Reimbursement Form and supply any necessary documentation, such as a health club contract or a copy
of a registration form for a school/town activity.
“Tools for members.” For your convenience, we accept multiple receipts and requests on one form.
Be reimbursed all at once.
than three months following a benefit year in order to receive reimbursement.
For more information about other fitness discounts, visit fallonhealth.org.
benefits,” at top of page, then select “Direct Care and Select Care benefit summary”.
Cardiovascular home fitness equipment must be new (not used) and purchased within the benefit year
at a retail store or at Amazon—receipt and proof of payment required (excludes secondary markets
*A benefit year is the 12-month period during which your annual health insurance plan design
features, such as deductibles and out-of-pocket maximums, accumulate.
The infant meal pattern must contain, at a minimum, each of the following components in the amounts
The additional foods are required once the infant is developmentally ready.
The minimum quantity of food must be provided to the infant in order to qualify for reimbursement,
but may be served during a span of time consistent with the infant's eating habits.
Este Termo de Consentimento Informado tem o objetivo de informar ao paciente e/ou ao seu
cirúrgico para amputação de membros ao qual o paciente será submetido, complementando as informações
prestadas pelo médico assistente e pela equipe multidisciplinar do Hospital SEPACO.
Are there rules for easier writing.
If the main function of a RA is to transfer a new knowledge on a research topic, then a good paper
reproduce and repeat explained experiments.
Answer research questions Give summary conclusions There are some rules that can make the writing
and publishing of RAs 'easier'.
Here, we summarised some 'golden' rules that should always be in the mind of an inexperienced
We put all these together to make a final list of some 40 logical steps, which can be find in the
Appendix.
Although, it was assumed that the 'thicker' articles with wider range of vocabulary is preferable in
the editors hands, the editors (and probably the readers) prefer simple, clear and coherent writing,
Also Funkhouser and Maccoby (1971) showed that the information gain is especially enhanced by the
“use of examples", i.e.
etc.
On the other hand, some sections, such as Introduction and Discussion, have to intrigue readers and
Li and J.  Yorke named their famous paper on chaos: "The period three means chaos").
Some sections require more skill and are more important.
It is approximated that from all published journal RAs in the world, only less than 5% are read in
detail.
important (Gordon, 1983).
I request that my child be allowed to self-administer the medication described below.
I also give permission for exchange of information between the school district staff and the health
employees and agenda against all claims, judgments, or liability arising out of the
persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data
harmonises the rules for protecting individuals’ privacy rights and freedoms within and, under
This new and historic legal milestone both prolongs and updates the EU acquis of the previous Data
rules applying to the processing of special categories of personal data such as health data taking
areas.
This article aims to provide an overview of the new rules to consider where scientific projects
facts to researchers to adapt their practices and ensure compliance to the EU law to be enforced in
May 2018.
Pvivaxhas been widely identified in Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and sporadic cases in other Asian
Many countries with both urban and rural malaria transmission may not have malaria risk in the most
frequently visited major cities.
†Equal efficacy; choice depends on traveller, itinerary, side-effects, individual choices, and
convenience.
proguanil have limited activity in the liver stage.
§Not recommended for travelling to Thailand borders with Cambodia and Burma due to mefloquine
||Need to check G6PD level before prescribing.
Sometimes used as terminal prophylaxis in travellers with prolonged stays in countries with P
vivaxor P ovale to eliminate the hypnozoite stage in the liver.
¶Primaquine has an effect on the liver-stage (primary schizont) of all four plasmodium species, and
Pfalciparum.
The estimated risk for a traveller acquiring malaria differs markedly from area to
various regions, the season of travel, and of the itinerary and type of travel.36,37 Ongoing malaria
subcontinent, southeast Asia, the middle east, eastern Europe, and the south Pacific
islands.1,2,5,10,35,36,43,44 There has been a marked increased in tourism, immigration, and refugee,
student, and business travel to these malaria-endemic areas.25,30,47 International migration has
risen from 120 million in 1990 to 175 million in 2002.28 Non- immune individuals are particularly
susceptible to develop severe malaria if exposed to an infected mosquito, particularly in areas with
high levels of transmission.2,5,14,19,36,45,46 Some groups are at higher risk.
(visiting friends and relatives) are at much higher risk of acquiring malaria.24,30–33 Indeed, this
experience excessive rates of travel-related morbidity including malaria and its.
higher allocation based on their size and frequency of publication (Table 1).
The proportion of treatment articles was determined in consultation with the publisher in advance of
the study and was set to avoid radical alteration of the appearance and performance of the journal.
Based on prestudy analysis of citationvariation,oursamplesizeprovidesuswitha0.8power to detect a 25%
2-sided).
controlled entirely by the researcher, who was provided with direct access to the admin- istration
of the journal websites.
Authors and editors were not alerted as to which articles received the open access treat- ment.
For some journals, treatment articles were indicated on the journal websites by an open lock icon.
authorized representative of the school must complete a HP HBCU Business Challenge School
Registration Form; and all forms must be returned to HP at hp.bcc@hp.com by Friday, September 13,
2019 by 11:59:59 p.m.
• Legal resident of and physically located in the fifty (50) United States, the District of
Columbia, Anguilla, Antigua & Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Cayman
Vincent & the Grenadines, the US Virgin Islands, Trinidad & Tobago, or Turks & Caicos.
Group Total, # Stage 0, # Stage I, # Stage II, # Stage III, # Stage IV, # Stage ?, # Stage 0, %
Stage I, % Stage II, % Stage III, % Stage IV, % Stage ?, % Stage I, % Stage II, % Stage III, % Stage
Hispanic 22856 4155 6887 6663 2915 988 1248 18.18 30.13 29.15 12.75 4.32 5.46 39.46 38.18 16.7 5.66
Asian/PI 16251 3818 5515 4353 1359 525 681 23.49 33.94 26.79 8.36 3.23 4.19 46.93 37.04 11.56 4.47
Age 20-44 16560 3071 4245 5466 2445 627 706 18.54 25.63 33.01 14.76 3.79 4.26 33.21 42.76 19.13 4.9
Age 45-64 69521 15088 24218 18211 6812 2590 2602 21.7 34.84 26.19 9.8 3.73 3.74 46.72 35.14 13.14 5
Table 4.
Incidence numbers (column 2 = total, columns 3-7 = stages 0-IV, column 8 = stage unknown or “?”, for
each row columns 3 through 8 add up to column 2), incidence rates in % for stages 0-IV and stage
add up to 100% up to rounding to 2 digits), and incidence rates for stages I-IV only with stage 0
Breast Cancer during 2005-2009 as reported in [Morris et al, 2013].
The demographic groups are abbreviated as follows: NHW = Non-Hispanic White, PI = Pacific Islander.
The incidence numbers are based on the data for persons diagnosed with breast, colon, rectal, lung,
and prostate cancer in California during 2004-2012 as reported in [Parikh-Patel et al, 2015].
and rectosigmoid junction, Lung = lung and bronchus.
I, _______________________________ hereby authorize Sonny’s Auto Salvage to charge the amount of US$
_________.____ on credit card # ____________________________ with the expiration date of
____/____/____, CID code of __________ issued by _________________ (Card Type: Visa, MasterCard,
Discover).
phone, by fax, or via the Internet.
Cassaundra Dicki 339 35 03 04 23 2112 chase 213627057371289649801008.
issuer/processors to prevent fraudulent usage.
Please note: If your credit card expiration date changes, if you are issued new credit card numbers,
complete and provide Sonny’s Auto Salvage a new Credit Card Authorization Form.
of unsuccessful attempts to FDA-approved medicines.
late-stage forms of brain cancer.
in brain cancer therapies.
realizar o acompanhamento da evolução do tratamento de ferida e/ou estoma existente no meu corpo,
treinamentos e/ou pesquisas clínicas ou acadêmicas, desde que não seja exposta a identidade do
Estou ciente e de acordo que esse registro fotográfico é importante para o tratamento da ferida e/ou
outras pessoas, qualificando-os para disponibilizar melhores cuidados neste tipo de tratamento.
pois é feito gratuitamente.
Em razão disso, AUTORIZO a cessão dos direitos de uso das imagens captadas a título gratuito ao HBB
e aos profissionais da Equipe de Enfermagem e Médica do HBB, por prazo indeterminado.
comprometimento do tratamento médico-hospitalar que está em curso ou a ser prestado no futuro.
de esclarecer a todas as dúvidas com o médico e/ou com o enfermeiro abaixo assinado.
O servidor acima mencionado vem requerer, nos termos da Portaria Normativa nº1, de 09 de março de
Assistência à Saúde Suplementar.
Fico ciente, desde já que o recebimento do auxilio, bem como a continuidade do mesmo, esta
do processo, respeitada a proporcionalidade do pagamento.
Declaro ainda, que as informações acima prestadas são verdadeiras, sob as penas da Lei e que
A - O servidor/pensionista que possui plano de saúde com contrato ou acordo de parceria firmado
servidor.
C - A comprovação dos pagamentos será ANUAL , devendo o servidor/pensionista entregar a partir do
dia primeiro de janeiro até o ultimo dia útil de abril do ano seguinte, uma Declaração de Quitação
caso da falta do mesmo.
I understand that this Direct Rollover to the Florida Retirement System (FRS) is for the express
these rollover funds) in the FRS.
I understand that to avoid the interest, this payment must be received by the FRS no later than June
Declaro estar ciente do conteúdo do Manual de Orientação para Cadastramento de Usuário no SIASG e
A infringência a qualquer dos itens sujeita os responsáveis às penalidades legais, em âmbito
administrativo, civil e penal.
To further illustrate the possible association between stronger price regulations and lower medicine
prices, an analysis was undertaken to compare the real price indices for pharmaceuticals in
Australia and the USA from 1981 to 2017.
This index indicates the change in price level for pharmaceuticals relative to the change in price
level for all goods and services (i.e.
all-item consumer price index) against a nominated baseline year (i.e.  1981).
These two countries were chosen for illustrative purpose because of their contrasting health care
systems and approaches for managing medicine prices: the Australian Government is known to have
market-based health care, with multiple private and public insurers and with minimal government
intervention for the pricing of medicines.
4.6a, p.61).
However, the trends in the two countries began to diverge in the late 1980s where the price level of
This could possibly be due to the introduction of “cost effectiveness” as a requirement before
listing a medicine on the national pharmaceutical insurance scheme, so as to ensure the benefits of
a given medicine were high enough to justify the price requested by the manufacturer (246).
The divergence became more prominent when the Australian Government undertook further reforms of its
national scheme after 2005 (247), which was implemented in response to a report that warned “in 40
years’ time, the PBS could account for 3.4% of GDP, making it the largest part of the Government’s
spending on health” (248).
The reforms seem to have resulted in gradual normalization of the growth rate of medicine prices in
Australia to a level in line with the overall inflation rate of other consumer goods (Fig.
In contrast, medicine prices continued to grow considerably in the USA, with the cumulative growth
reimbursement policies in Australia over four decades have controlled the growth rate of medicine
the Guidelines for the search literature reviews of the 2007 WCRF/AICR expert Report1 .
diets rich in fruit and vegetables and low in fats- will be coded under “Dietary patterns” and
An additional main heading for “Nutrition-related complementary and alternative Medicine” has been
added for this review (code 9 in Appendix 4) with the following subheadings: Traditional medicine,
for which there is no evidence on appropriate validity and repeatability will not be included in the
review (List of biomarkers is in Appendix 5).
For each vehicle involved in a reportable Motor Vehicle accident, it is necessary to provide
insurance coverage.
Speech/Hearing Impaired HELP TTY/TTD Relay 7-1-1.
If you will be mailing in your request, you may include a check in the amount of $5.00 and we will
The implications of the significant dispersion of prices are at least threefold.
Firstly, it indicates that existing procurement practices in some countries may not be the most
efficient, as lower prices could have been achieved.
Secondly, it may impair the countries’ coverage of essential cancer medicines when prices are higher
than their ability to fund and provide the medicines.
Thirdly, regional price differences within a country may cause inequitable access, with only some
patients having access to the medicines at lower prices.
This form should be completed on paper or electronically by the pharmacist checking the work card.
checked all these items for accuracy in the setup and transcription of information onto the work
Patients who self- administer their medications or personal caregivers should visually examine the
medication, confirm whether its ap- pearance meets their expectations, and compare its instruc-
tions with information they received from their healthcare providers (e.g., a chemotherapy
calendar).
dependently against the prescriber’s orders by at least two individuals who are trained and
All dosage- and administration- rate-related calculations should be independently verified.
This includes any infusion pump rate settings, which should be checked at the initiation of each
container of the infu- sion, periodically throughout the infusion, and whenever a new nurse assumes
Healthcare providers should routinely confirm that the medication will be admin- istered to the
components (e.g., addi-.
tional medications, diluent, and vehicle solutions), route of administration, and schedule are
correct.
confirmed before administration.
At checkpoint 8, patients who self-administer their medications (or receive it from personal
caregivers) should carefully read the container’s label to confirm the product’s identity and review
take a medication.
At checkpoint 9, patients should be encouraged to ask questions about their treatment before its
administration and compare its appearance and medication label with informa- tion they received
Patient identification using two identifiers should occur prior to chemotherapy administration.
assume such risks.
Kidz®, its officers, employees, activity instructors and assistants, and all officers and employees
for damages for personal injuries, or claims for damages to property, which my child or my child's
heirs, assigns, executors or administrators may have or which may accrue to my child's participation
in this activity.
I have read the above and understand important legal rights are being waived.
(Optional) I consent to Bricks 4 Kidz® use of any photographs or video recording that are taken of
my child while participating in the camp activity for use in Bricks 4 Kidz® brochures and program
No payment will be made for use of these photographs and/or videos.
Your child’s name would never be used in connection with these images.
entity servicing my loan on their behalf (hereinafter called THE LENDER) to initiate mortgage
payment debit entries (which may vary from the amount indicated below with future changes in escrow,
principal and interest components, as applicable) to my (our) Checking or Savings Account indicated
below and the depository named below to debit the same to such account.
funds or otherwise dishonored, I (we) will promptly send THE LENDER the total monthly payment due,
plus any late charge(s) or other fees due under my mortgage.
erroneous debits.
a reasonable opportunity to act upon it.
THE LENDER may terminate this agreement at any time, with written notice sent to me.
We use the first 39 weeks (276 days) of 2016 as our train- ing set and evaluate on weeks 40-52 (days
277-365).
Their cov- erage ranges from 0 to 368 news mentions, with the scien- tific articles in the 50th and
LambdaMART directly optimizes ranking quality measures such as Normalized Discounted Cumu- lative
For the daily problem, we optimize and evaluate on NDCG@10 since it is a usual search engine metric
and we found 10 to be the upper limit on the number of scientific ar- ticles a real news outlet
would cover in a day.
For the weekly problem, we optimize and evaluate on a range of ranks 7, 35, and 70, corresponding to
outlets which publish on 1, 5, or 10 scientific articles each day.
We use DART (Dropouts meet Multiple Additive Regression Trees) as the boosting type, as previous
research has shown that DART overcomes MART’s issue of over-specialization to a considerable ex-
tent and improves performance on ranking tasks (Rashmi and Gilad-Bachrach 2015).
Publisher.
Table 1 displays the top 10 journals with at least 100 articles by average news coverage (all
As expected, top journals such as JAMA, Pediatrics, New.
the top 10.
We also extract and treat as binary features four different types of subjects from Altmetric and
CrossRef: Medline subject codes for journal (Altmetric), subjects as indexed by SCOPUS (Altmetric),
Subjects are mostly at the granularity of the journal or higher.
landscape conservation.”Multidisciplinaryjournals,suchasPNASand Nature, are often tagged with more
general subjects such as “science” or “multidisciplinary.” Table 2 displays the top 10 CrossRef
subjects describing at least 100 articles by aver- age news coverage.
As expected, health related subjects top the list, along with those related to the environment.
Unfor- tunately, but as expected, “general computer science” and “computational mathematics” secured
We also extract textual features, when available, for each document: Title, Abstract, Press Release.
For scientific ar- ticles with more than one press release, we randomly select one.
For each type of text document, we preprocess using a standard English stop word list, extracting
than 80% of documents of the same type in the training set.
We keep the 30,000 most frequently occurring features in the training set.
coverage on one of the two prominent press release aggregation websites, Eu- rekAlert.
We hypothesize that mention on one of these would expose the scientific article to more jour-
□ New Authorization: I hereby authorize the Virginia Housing Development Authority (VHDA) to deposit
into my account any and all housing assistance payments payable by VHDA to me under the Housing
revocation shall be in such form and shall be submitted prior to such date as VHDA shall require.
deposit.
payable to me under the Housing Choice Voucher Program and to correct entries for such deposits in
accordance with my prior authorization as changed hereby.
deposit.
De acordo com o Item 3.1 do Edital de Processo Seletivo 002/2014 da Prefeitura Municipal de
Tigrinhos (SC), embasado no art.
students’ primary language.
English learners receive instruction in ELD and other core subjects through effective teaching
strategies from trained and authorized teachers using district-adopted textbooks and supplementary
Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level content standards.
English Language Mainstream (ELM): Students who score at reasonable fluency in English are placed in
an ELM program setting in a classroom.
English learners receive instruction in ELD and other core subjects through effective teaching
instructional materials.
Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level standards.
Students continue to receive additional and appropriate instruction in order to make academic
progress and meet the requirements to be reclassified as fluent English proficient (FEP).
native literacy designs.
Instruction is based on ELD and grade-level standards.
Exception Waiver* receive core instruction initially through their primary language and instruction
instructional materials.
make academic progress and meet the requirements to be reclassified as fluent English proficient
(FEP).
The prevailing models of emergency medical transport used in North America and Western Europe are
Severe resource constraints, the poor condition of roads or trails, and a lack of fuel may dictate
the utilization of a wider range of options.
reconditioned vehicles, and ox carts (22).
carefacilityisthethirdcomponentofemergencymedicalcare.
Healthcarefacilitiesdifferwidelyinrespectofequipment,staff and resources, and they consequently
possess varying capacities to provide emergency care.
significantly lower than that available at a tertiary care hospital.
Nevertheless, some capacity to provide emergency
A health care facility’s capacity is determined by both human and structural factors.
The level of demand placed onthe facility by the surrounding population may also dictate which
Initial triage and treatment constitute one.
clinicshadnotpreviouslybeenrecognized.Insteadofreceiving immediate emergency care they were kept
In Mexico, verbal autopsies of 132 children who died revealed that the majority had been seen by a
physician within three days of death.
Poor selection of medications and late referral to tertiary care were judged to be important
contributory factors in more than half the deaths (29).
(30).
Several international health projects aimed at improving initial triage and treatment have been
Most focus on the strengthening of maternal and child health.
prompt medical and surgicaltreatmenttowomenwithcomplicationsofpregnancy.
The annual number of obstetric procedures rose from 2 to 38 over a period of five years.
During the same period the.
The Proposal responder reserves its rights, should it be awarded the project, to negotiate the terms
and conditions of any final proposed agreements after an opportunity to review such documents and
after final agreement on the proposed scope of services to be performed.
Spectra Venue Management has included its contract for this service in the RFP package.
To be considered for an award, this contract must be returned to the Authority already executed.
At this time, it is not expected that the scope of services will be altered.
Accordingly, the contract provided will not be altered.
No revision to the contract is necessary.
Proposal responder should it be awarded the project recommends the inclusion of a mutual waiver of
6.
for acts not tied to its negligence, “alleged” acts or for a duty to defend but can agree to
reimburse for reasonable attorney’s fees to.
decade prior, thus allowing the reinstatement of an osteo- pathic licensing board, a medical
society, and a new school, now known as Western University of Health Sci- ences College of
new chal- lenges for the osteopathic profession.
In fact, it was not until 1995 that the first DO was named to serve on the Physician Payment Review
Commission, which advised Congress on policy con- cerning such reimbursements.
Today, numerous issues, including physician reim- bursement, still surround osteopathic medicine.
The most pertinent of these concerns are internship and resi- dency shortages, public awareness and
perception, clinical research on OMM, DO-MD relations, and the effort to dis- tinguish DOs from MDs
All of these issues are quite complex and are further elaborated on later in this guidebook.
24% Average growth every 5 years in # of DOs since 1985.
osteopathic philosophy has evolved into a more complete and robust osteopathic medicine.
The phrase “osteopathic medicine” is now the accepted term for the profession over “osteopathy,” a
now-antiquated term that represents a period when Still championed a near-drugless form of manual
medicine.
Since its conception, osteopathic med- icine has adapted its body of knowledge to incorporate
contemporary scientific thought, including germ theory, pharmacology, and other “allopathic”
teachings.
Though interprofessional relations between MDs and DOs are better than they have ever been before,
The VIX Index is an amalgam of the information reflected in the prices of all of the selected
options.
The contribution of a single option to the VIX Index value is proportional to ΔK and the price of
that option, and inversely proportional to the square of the option’s strike price.
Generally, ΔKi is half the difference between the strike prices on either side of K i.
For example, the ΔK for the next-term 1325 Put is 37.5: ΔK 1325 Put = (1350 – 1275)/2.
At the upper and lower edges of any given strip of options, ΔK i is simply the difference between K
i and the adjacent strike price.
In this example, the 1370 Put is the lowest strike in the strip of near- term options and 1375 is
the adjacent strike.
) 1370 ( 1 1 2 1370 1370 Put Q e KK T R Put Put ) 1370 ( 1 1 2 1370 1370 Put Q e KK T R Put Put = )
20 .
0 ( 1370 5 ) 0.0683486 ( 000305 .  2 e = 0.0000005328.
The resulting values for the near-term options are then summed and multiplied by 2/T 1.
Likewise, the resulting values for the next-term options are summed and multiplied by 2/T 2.
The table below summarizes the results for each strip of options.
Participating credit card companies are now requiring a billing address and phone number for FRAUD
PREVENTION.
All information MUST be provided.  Thank you for your cooperation.
requested is influenced by the needs of my individual household available to me.
I understand that the additional money I am requesting may I understand that the Financial Aid
parent information, and the date Student Aid Report (SAR).
I understand that in most cases, I will be awarded dollar amount requested above, to be disbursed
Mail, and that said funding will not be processed until I ha.
Autorizo(amos) a Seguradora a efetuar o crédito no banco e conta corrente/poupança acima indicados.
sinistro acima indicado, renunciando expressamente do direito de pleitear qualquer indenização em
direitos e ações do Segurado.
forem emitidas a seu cargo, em meu favor, transferindo o respectivo equivalente em moeda nacional
para crédito em conta de minha titularidade por mim instruído neste formulário, deduzidas as
despesas e tributos.
Estou ciente de que se não houver ordem de pagamento liquidada na forma desta Autorização no período
de 2 (dois) meses, ela será cancelada automaticamente.
poderes para assinar, digitalmente ou pelo punho de funcionário de seu quadro e em meu nome, o
contrato e/ou boleto de câmbio e outros documentos necessários à liquidação da operação
correspondente, por mim contratada, caso não compareça para fazê-lo no prazo de 05 (cinco) dias
O descumprimento do regulamento poderá implicar caracterização de fraude cambial, punível nos termos
da Lei n° 4.131, de 03.09.62, cujo artigo 23, parágrafos 2º e 3º, encontram-se transcritos a seguir:
com multa de 50 (cinquenta) a 300% (trezentos por cento) do valor da operação para cada um dos
visado pelo estabelecimento bancário e pelo corretor que nela intervierem.” (Redação dada pela Lei
multa de 5 (cinco) a 100% (cem por cento) do valor da operação, a declaração de informações falsas
no formulário a que se refere o parágrafo 2°”.
fiscal, sendo os casos detectados objeto de comunicação pelo Banco Central do Brasil a outros órgãos
Os documentos que respaldam a operação de câmbio devem ser guardados pelo prazo de 5 (cinco) anos, a
partir do término do exercício em que a mesma tenha ocorrido, para apresentação ao Banco Central do
Brasil quando e se solicitado.
Regarding Figure 4, it is obvious that with increase in mesh size or decrease in particle size,
surface roughness comes down and results in a finer surface.
had been observed.
mesh number.
Besides, the greater the abrasive particles, the bigger their cutting edges are, so scratches made
Finally, to examine effect of finishing time cycle, last set of experiments with the following
condition has been conducted: Magnetic field strength of 0.8T, abrasive particle mesh size of 400,
finishing cycles of 30, 45 and 60 minutes.
Results are shown in Figure 5.
been compared with the other possible conditions and there was no significant difference between
them but graph slope between these three points.
and as a result, more peaks are removed.
by continuing abrasion after removal of peaks.
However, this conclusion may not be completely true or even may not be the only reason, because
abrasive particles will be abraded themselves after such a long period of finishing.
layout form their behavior.
Table 1 shows the order of experiments that are shown in Figure 6.
1.  Decide when to clean.  Mortar must harden prior to cleaning.
It is generally best to schedule cleaning at least seven days after brickwork is completed.
In some cases it may be possible to clean earlier; how- ever, effects on the masonry and influencing
factors such as weather conditions and the type of brick and mortar should be carefully considered.
Prolonged time periods between the completion of the masonry and cleaning should be avoided.
After one month, mortar smears and splatters left on brickwork become increasingly difficult to
remove.
2.  Remove larger clumps of mortar using wooden paddles or nonmetallic tools.
Metal tools may damage the brickwork or leave behind fragments that oxidize and cause rust stains.
3.  Select the proper cleaning solution.
There are many types of proprietary cleaners available that are for- mulated to remove specific
Use of unbuffered muriatic acid solutions tend to cause further stains and damage mortar joints.
make them safer, easier to use properly and more environmentally responsible.
4.  Protect adjacent materials and nearby plants.
Mask or otherwise protect windows, doors, and materials such as sealants, metal, glass, wood,
Cleaning chemicals may also damage plants and grass.
It may be necessary to pre- vent the cleaning solution and run-off from contacting plants or the
surrounding soil.
5.  Saturate the area to be cleaned.  Flush with water from the top down.
Saturated brick masonry will not absorb the cleaning solution or dissolved mortar particles.
Areas below the area being cleaned should also be saturated and kept wet until after the final rinse
to prevent streaking and absorption of the run-off from above.
benefits or as a spouse or dependent of an eligible veteran who has received transferred military
education benefits.
District policy regarding network access is found in Personnel Policy 5450 and 3612.
Access to the network resources may be restricted or denied due to not-compliance with this policy.
Blatant or continual abuse of this privilege may result in disciplinary action being taken pursuant
to District policies.
Requesting this network account signifies my intentions to comply with said policy during my tenure
Background: In 1995, the US wireless telecommunications industry developed assignment guidelines for
International Mobile Station Identifier (IMSI) in the US.
The result of this development effort was the consensus-approved document titled IMSI Assignment
Guidelines and Procedures Version 1.0.
The IMSI Administrator directly administers only the Home Network Identity (HNI) segment of the
The remaining segment of the IMSI, the Mobile Station Identification Number (MSIN), is directly
Issue: In 1998, ITU Recommendation E.212 was modified allowing IMSI assignments to those Wireline
Service Providers offering limited mobility services.
As a result, HNI assignments are no longer available exclusively to CMRS providers.
The current IMSI assignment and administrative guidelines do not however reflect these
modifications.
Discuss and resolve proposed revisions to the IMSI oversight process.
The current IMSI Management Guidelines and Procedures established an IMSI Management Forum (IMF) and
an IMSI Management Council (IMC).
Guidelines as well as other technical and administrative issues affecting this resource.
be sufficient to incentivize the discovery of future medicines (109).
To this point, the industry noted that 20% of its revenues were re-invested into R&D (87).
medicines, are sufficient for pharmaceutical companies to cover their past R&D expenses, maintain
their operations and engage in future drug discovery research.
patent would represent generous profits to the company” (30).
Another study found that total revenue from the sales of 10 cancer medicines since approval over a
median of four years (US$ 67.0 billion) was 9.3 times the total R&D spending of US$ 7.2 billion (or
7.4 times using an estimated risk-adjusted R&D costs of US$ 9.1 billion) (94).
To systematically assess the financial return of cancer medicines, this report undertook a study to
quantify the reported global incomes from the sales of individual medicines approved by the US FDA
as neutropenia and hypercalcaemia (117).
Itemized product sales data were extracted from the consolidated financial reports of originator
Conforme previsto nas Condições Gerais do Seguro Saúde, a Seguradora poderá solicitar aos médicos e
prestadores, esclarecimentos referente às informações relacionadas aos documentos apresentados,
inclusive os prontuários médicos.
A não veracidade dos documentos apresentados e/ou omissão de qualquer informação prestada, na
tentativa de obter vantagem indevida do seguro, praticadas pelo Segurado Titular ou qualquer de seus
de fraude (ou tentativa), acarretará a exclusão do Segurado Titular ou qualquer de seus segurados
Dependentes, e a Seguradora poderá RESCINDIR o contrato por FRAUDE.
O desmembramento de recibo, recibos de atendimento de outras pessoas não seguradas emitido em nome
de segurados, recibos falsos e/ou adulterados e outras irregularidades, constituem Crime e podem
resultar na perda do direito ao reembolso e cessação automática da cobertura individual, sem
prejuízo da adoção das demais medidas cabíveis.
2 - Para análise e pagamento do reembolso referente às despesas cobertas contratualmente, é
necessário a entrega da documentação completa para a Seguradora.
3 - Reanálises: Para casos de solicitação de documentação complementar pela Seguradora, o segurado
poderá encaminhar pelos seguintes meios: Site
Para mais informações, acesse: http://www.segurosunimed.com.br/servicos/formulario-reembolso.html 4
- Para sua segurança, mantenha uma cópia dos documentos enviados.
7 - Caso seu pedido de reembolso não seja aceito, os documentos originais serão encaminhados para
Área de Recursos Humanos de sua empresa ou corretora responsável, para devolução.
9.613 toda e qualquer Solicitação de Reembolso iguais e/ou acima de R$ 10.000,00 o RECEBEDOR deverá
apresentar cópia do RG, CPF e Comprovante de Endereço atualizado para que o pagamento seja efetuado.
De acordo com as condições gerais da apólice, a seguradora está autorizada a solicitar a médicos,
relacione aos documentos apresentados, inclusive prontuários médicos.
tentativa de obter vantagem indevida do seguro, como por exemplo, o desdobramento de recibos,
na perda do direito ao reembolso e cessação automática da cobertura individual, sem prejuízo da
adoção das demais medidas cabíveis ao caso.
O prazo para solicitação de reembolso é de 01 (hum) ano, à contar da data exposta no documento
fiscal (recibo ou nota fiscal), conforme artigo 206, inciso II, alínea B do Código Civil Brasileiro.
Atenção: Verifique com precisão os dados da conta para depósito, preencher os campos abaixo com as
informações corretas e legíveis.
O não preenchimento isenta a Seguros Unimed de qualquer transtorno decorrente da não efetivação do
O reembolso será creditado conforme opção escolhida, desde que os dados sejam do segurado titular do
Instructions: All students in the BS program in Systems Engineering at the George Washington
University must have an internship experience.
As proof of their internship, they are asked to have their internship supervisor complete this form.
pessoa(s) indicada(s) acima.
Esclareço que tal indicação atende meus interesses próprios e pessoais e, portanto, deve ser
considerada boa, firme e valiosa para todos os fins e efeitos de direito, isentando a Seguradora de
Theprimaryreasonforincreasingdrugspendingisthehighpriceof
brandedproductsprotectedbymarketexclusivityprovisionsgranted
drugs increased 164%,farinexcessoftheconsumerpriceindex(12%).16,17 Thean- nual cost of a growing
pralatrexate (Folotyn), and elosulfase alfa (Vimizim)—exceeds $250000perpatient.
Althoughbrand-namedrugsaccountforthegreatestincrease
inprescriptiondrugexpenditures,anotherareathathascaptured
drugs.
In 2015, Turing Pharmaceuticals raised the price of pyrimethamine (Daraprim), a
63-year-oldtreatmentfortoxoplasmosis,by5500%,from$13.50 to$750apill.22
Thecompanywasabletosetthehighpricedespite theabsenceofanypatentprotectionbecausenoothercompeting
manufacturerwaslicensedtomarketthedrugintheUnitedStates.
Significantincreasesinthepricesofotherolderdrugsincludeiso-
Even though the prices of most generic drug products have re- mained stable between 2008 and 2015,
nearly every other ad- vancednation,theUShealthcaresystemallowsmanufacturersto
settheirownpriceforagivenproduct.11 Incontrast,incountrieswith
pricesorrejectscoverageofproductsifthepricedemandedbythe
manufacturerisexcessiveinlightofthebenefitprovided(Table3);
manufacturersmaythendecidetoofferthedrugatalowerprice.24
InEnglandandWales,forexample,theNationalInstituteforHealth
andCareExcellenceconsiderswhetheranewdrugpassesacost-
ingitforcoveragebytheNationalHealthService.25 Althoughprices canvarywidelyaroundtheworld26
andhavealsoincreasedfaster than member states’ gross domestic products in recent years in Europe,27
USdrugpricespercapitastillsubstantiallyoutpacethose inothersettings.10 Drug companies’ ability to
maintain high prices in the United Statesisbasedon2marketforces:protectionfromcompetitionand
negotiatingpower.
When you are making payment to someone this form must be submitted to Payroll & Disbursements with a
generic voucher.
The correct account code (object code) to use is 4326.
Abstract: This Technical Note describes the mechanisms leading to the formation of efflorescence,
Conditions necessary to cause efflorescence to appear are presented, along with design
This Technical Note describes the mechanisms of efflorescence, including possible sources of salts
and water, providing a basic understanding of the phenomenon of efflorescence that is essential to
Although similar, sources of salts and the development of efflorescence on paving surfaces are
discussed in the Technical Notes 14 Series on brick pavements.
efflorescence and investigation of its causes before options for correction are considered.
This Technical Note is intended to serve as a guide in this process.
Simply stated, efflorescence occurs when water containing dissolved salts is brought to the surface
The salt solutions may migrate across surfaces of masonry units, between the mortar and units, or
- There must be a source of water in contact with the salts for a period of time sufficient to
dissolve them.
or other locations where evaporation of water can occur.
The enrollment date indicates your specific time to register for classes.
Assigned enrollment dates are generally during November for the spring semester and April for the
You can view course registration instructions and important academic deadlines on the Registrar’s
Office website.
www.colorado.edu/registrar/students/registration
www.colorado.edu/registrar/students/academic-calendar.
3.  Degree audits are available through myCUInfo under Track your Academic Progress.
Review your degree audit prior to your advising appointment.
Please contact Victoria Ibarra with concerns/errors.).
4.
Submit your Advisor Approval form to the Undergraduate Studies Office, room C109, at least one day
prior to your Enrollment Date.
A completed and signed form is necessary to remove the Academic Advising Required Hold on your
You will not be able to register for classes until this hold and/or any other campus hold are
5.
In planning your next semester schedule, keep in mind the Ensemble Rule that states all students
program.
Ensemble selection appropriate to your degree and scholarship agreement should be discussed with
your advisor.
You may be dropped from lessons and/or your music scholarship may be affected if you do not adhere
material comunicativo bem como nas apresentações relacionadas ao Projeto Tocar & Encantar e me
qual recebi, estando ciente de que o mesmo fora emprestado para uso nas oficinas de Musica
Instrumental e estudo em casa e que o instrumento pertence ao CRAS CENTRAL.
Ciente das informações citadas acima, concordo e assino este documento.  03087750409-.
ACGME residency, compared to the 94.40 percent U.S.  MD NRMP match rate in the same year.
Percentages of allopathic and osteopathic students who matched in specific specialties (see Table
4-3) showed that there were some important distinctions in proportions of graduates (DO vs.
Despite the common misconception that highly competitive specialties are not open to DO graduates,
sig- nificant numbers of DOs enter such fields as orthopedic surgery, anesthesiology, and diagnostic
Several limitations of this data analysis were acknowl- edged by the contributing SDN member, Jimmy
whether or not they matched into their top choice of specialty, mul- tiple match attempts,
including neurology, oph- thalmology, and plastic surgery.
SINCE 2001, ALL state licensing boards have accepted the Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensure
Exam- ination of the United States (COMLEX-USA), which is produced by the National Board of
The United States Medical Licensing Exam (USMLE), produced by the National Board of Med- ical
Examiners (NMBE), is the licensing exam that all allo- pathic medical students are required to take.
must be passed for a phy- sician to gain unlimited licensure to practice medicine in the United
States.
According to 2013 USMLE Performance Data pub- lished in the 2013 NBME Annual Report, 97 percent of
students and gradu- ates (N=14,649) passed the USMLE Step 1 exam on their first attempt.
only a minority of DO students elect to take the USMLE is because it is optional and not required
for their licensure.
residency programs, allo- pathic (ACGME) residency programs, dual-accredited pro- grams, or both AOA
elect to take the USMLE.
Thus, those who do take the USMLE must take both exams, which slightly differ in their length,
I hereby agree to the conditions set forth in the 2020–21 GRE® Information Bulletin and on the GRE
I certify that all information provided on this form is accurate and that I am the person who will
is worth noting that these two long RAIs, as well as the longest introduction in the BESP subcorpus
(i.e., BESP5, with 928 words), contained the whole literature review.
Besides a higher average number of words per RAI, the ESPj subcorpus also had a higher average
number of sentences per RAI.
In fact, three of the 10 ESPj introductions only had one paragraph, whereas BESP introductions
required at least two.
introductions had fewer than three sentences per paragraph while, in the ESPj corpus, three was the
minimum found and the average was 5.2.
NOTICE: The Transportation Office will need up to ten (10) working days upon receipt of registration
Request for any other pick up or drop off location requires a Day Care Pick-up or Drop-off Request
must be completed and returned to your student’s school.
Long term costs of prostate cancer: estimates for France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK.
In preparation.  2011.
Cost estimates for prostate cancer in England and Wales in 1997 were at least £ 45 million per
However, this is an underestimate as it only accounted for primary care costs (primary care
initial non- hormonal therapies, the cost of a 6-month maximum follow-up treatment and hormonal
therapy, as well as the costs for patients who relapse within a year, the incidence total cost for
the UK was estimated at £ 97 million in 2007, ≈ 0.12% of the UK ’ s annual spending on the NHS of
guilders ( Table 1 ), which represented 6% of the country ’ s total cancer costs [ 11 ] .
A sizeable proportion of the costs for prostate cancer are incurred in the fi rst year after
diagnosis [ 20 ] .
A recent publication by Fourcade et al .
O ceratocone, a degeneração marginal pelúcida e ectasia pós-cirurgia refrativa são doenças que
causam afilamento e abaulamento da córnea (estrutura transparente que forma a parede anterior do
globo ocular).
O grau de embaçamento visual vai depender do grau de astigmatismo produzido e da existência de
outras alterações oculares associadas.
Astigmatismo pós-transplante de córnea é um grau residual que ocorre dependendo da intera- ção entre
córnea doada e receptor (coaptação, cicatrização, abertura e frouxidão de pontos no decorrer da
cicatrização e sua retirada).
As formas atuais de correção da visão nestes casos são: 1) Óculos; 2) Lentes de contato; 3)
Transplante de Córnea.
lentes de contato.
na tentativa de melhorar a qualidade visual.
Já é considerado procedimento aprovado pelo CFM (Conselho Federal de Me- dicina).
Neste procedimento, a anestesia é tópica (com colírio).
A recuperação visual é gradual, ocorrendo de maneira mais significativa na primeira semana, mas pode
levar até meses de estabilização.
O procedimento a laser em geral, é mais rápido e os túneis para implante do anel são confeccio-
procedimento cirúrgico.
3.
Benefícios do procedimento proposto: Com a realização do procedimento cirúrgico de implante do anel
intracorneano pode ocorrer diminuição do grau de astigmatismo e melhora da visão.
O resultado não é garantido.
trouxe os benefícios esperados.
Estes procedimentos ci- rúrgicos não melhoram os danos causados à visão por problemas da retina,
glaucoma ou outras doenças oculares.
garantias quanto ao resultado final do procedimento proposto; c) Têm pleno conhecimento da
importância de que sejam seguidas as orientações e prescri- ções indicadas, evitando ou minimizando
as possibilidades de ocorrência de complicações pré, intra e pós-operatórias, responsabilizando-se
pelas consequências advindas de sua ino- bservância; d) Neste ato, informaram ao médico de todos os
pormenores de seu quadro clínico geral de saúde, bem como informado a ingestão de medicamentos de
trato contínuo e tratamentos de outras enfermidades, inclusive antes da realização do procedimento
cirúrgico.
cedimento cirúrgico, anormalidades estas que possam inclusive comprometer o procedimento no pré,
a) O cirurgião a tomar as medidas que julgar necessárias, em decorrência das circunstâncias
de imagens ou a realização de fotografias no pré, intra e pós- -operatório do procedimento
auxiliares/assistentes, a dar andamento aos procedimentos propedêuticos e tera- pêuticos que lhe
mentos, e aceito as explicações pertinentes, o paciente e seu responsável legal, se for o caso,
other health insurance coverage, you may in the future be able to enroll yourself or your dependents
in this health plan, provided that you request enrollment within 30 days after your other coverage
ends.
In addition, if you have a new dependent as a result of marriage, birth, adoption, or placement for
I affirm that the assertions in this form are true and complete to the best of my knowledge, and I
understand that Harvard Pilgrim has the right to terminate coverage, retroactive to the effective
Bandolier Bandolier is an independent organization in Europe that produces reports on evidence-based
Its evaluation compared many studies and concluded that the opioid medications were no more
In 2007, Bandolier produced a table comparing the efficacy of many different oral and injectable
medications for pain.
The below excerpt from that table shows the relative strengths of some commonly used medications.
Notice that an injection of 10 mg of morphine is roughly equivalent to an oral dose of OTC
ibuprofen.
Dental pain A recent review article in the Journal of the American Dental Association addressing the
Moore et al.
concluded, “The results of the quantitative systematic reviews indicated that the ibuprofen-APAP
combination may be a more effective analgesic, with fewer untoward effects, than are many of the
currently available opioid-containing formulations.” (Moore, 2013, p.
They found that non-opioid medications provided some positive global effect on the treatment of this
disorder, while the opioids did not.
not reach statistical significance.
(Lewis et al., 2013).
Radcliff et al.
looked at patients who received opioids initially for treatment of lumbar disc herniation compared
with those who did not.
Opioid medications were associated with an increased crossover to surgical treatment.
Four years after the initiation of treatment, 16 percent of those who received opioids at the start
were still on opioids, whereas only 5 percent of those who were treated with non-opioids initially
were on opioids after four years.
They concluded that those who were initially treated with opioids had a higher rate of surgery and a
(Radcliff et al., 2013).
Table 6—Common Comorbid Psychiatric Disorders and Symptoms II.
Pre-Sleep Conditions: Patients with insomnia may de- velop behaviors that have the unintended
consequence of per- petuating their sleep problem.
These behaviors may begin as strategies to combat the sleep problem, such as spending more time in
bed in an effort to “catch up” on sleep.
Other behaviors in bed or in the bedroom that are incompatible with sleep may include talking on the
telephone, watching television, computer use, exercising, eating, smoking, or “clock watching.”
Insom- nia patients may report sensations of being more aware of the environment than are other
individuals and may report antici- pating a poor sleep hours before bedtime, and become more alert
and anxious as bedtime approaches.
alone/bed partner, TV on/off) as well as the patient’s state of mind (sleepy vs.
anx- ious) is helpful in understanding which factors might facilitate or prolong sleep onset or
Sleep-Wake Schedule: In evaluating sleep-related symptoms, the clinician must consider not only the
patient’s “usual” symptoms, but also their range, day-to-day variability, and evolution over time.
Specific sleep-wake variables such as.
time to fall asleep (sleep latency), number of awakenings, wake time after sleep onset (WASO), sleep
duration, and napping can be quantified retrospectively during the clinical assessment and
prospectively with sleep-wake logs.
Although no specific quan- titative sleep parameters define insomnia disorder, common complaints for
insomnia patients are an average sleep latency >30 minutes, wake after sleep onset >30 minutes,
patient’s sleep needs and natural sleep and wake rhythm.
Nocturnal Symptoms: Patient and bed partner reports may also help to identify nocturnal signs,
symptoms and behav- iors associated with breathing-related sleep disorders (snoring, gasping,
headaches).
Daytime Activities and Daytime Function: Daytime activities and behaviors may provide clues to
potential causes and consequences of insomnia.
or with dangerous consequences, disabled, caretaker responsibilities), lifestyle (sedentary/active,
home- bound, light exposure, exercise), travel (especially across time zones), daytime dysfunction
(quality of life, mood, cog- nitive dysfunction), and exacerbation of comorbid disorders should be
evaluated in depth.
sleepiness (actual tendency to fall asleep) in patients with chronic insomnia.
frequency of mathematical connections) (P<0.05).
But results of this test has shown that the students of different strands (mathematics, experimental
In Table 5 for first open-ended question, the findings indicated that students of mathematical
(Quality of examples).
In second category (subject variety of examples), students of mathematical strand have the highest
frequency percent in particular the numbers part; 23%.
Also students of experimental strand have the highest frequency percent; 50.8% for third category
(context of examples).
their own mistakes.
Typical exercise was, for example: a short RA is given to students who have to write a missing
abstract respecting the rules and functions of an abstract.
Most of the rules mentioned in this article were agreed by the majority of participants.
general conclusions.
Nevertheless, some of the statements and principles reflect personal views and opinions and should
The listed rules and tips given here apply primarily to application-based sciences and RAs intended
for publication in such journals.
Participants agreed that the main article sections that are inevitable in any modern journal are, in
this order: Title, Authors, Abstract, Introduction (I), Methodology (M), Results (R), Conclusions
and Discussion (D) and References.
These are the core body of RA.
and Appendices.
The functions of main RAS's and discussed rules of thumb are given in Table 2.
Give summary results.
Participants agreed that some RA, even with good data and interesting results, will be rejected if
This agrees with the results of investigations among 116 editors (Gosden, 1992; Fig.
1), who identified following most frequent causes to reject an L2 author: unclear text, incoherent
development of the topic in paragraphs and incorrect use of grammar.
In addition, the participants analysed an exemplary flawed paper by unknown author and decided to
reject it after some discussion.
The list of reasons for rejection can be seen in Table 1.
Wind turbines will be used to harness the kinetic energy of the moving air over the oceans on the
OCS and convert it to electricity.
Offshore winds are less turbulent (because the ocean is flat relative to onshore topography), and
they tend to flow at higher speeds than onshore winds, thus allowing turbines to produce more
electricity.
speed, increased wind speeds of only a few miles per hour can produce a significantly larger amount
For instance, a turbine at a site with an average wind speed of 16 mph would produce 50% more
electricity than at a site with the same turbine and average wind speeds of 14 mph (Offshore Wind
As early as 200 B.C., wind was reportedly used to pump water in China and grind grain in the Middle
East.
In the nineteenth century, settlers in the United States used windmills to generate electricity for
Interest in wind energy has waxed and waned with the price of fossil fuels.
After the 1973 Arab oil embargo, new ways of converting wind energy into useful power were
developed.
Many of these approaches have been demonstrated in wind facilities (also known as wind farms, wind
wind-generated electricity is close to that generated from conventional utilities in some locations.
Wind energy is the fastest growing energy source worldwide at about 20 to 30% per year.
The worldwide installed capacity of onshore grid-connected wind power is about 40 GW.
In the mid-1980s, the rotor (blades and hub) diameter was about 20 m; today, rotor diameters are 100
m or more (bigger than the wingspan of a 747 aircraft), with the rotating blades covering an area
which contains one or more elements of artificial intelligence functionality available for
Customer’s active enablement at its choosing as a feature of such Service (each element, an
“Einstein feature”).
The infrastructure used by SFDC to host Customer Data submitted to an Einstein feature is provided
(or such other infrastructure provider as identified in the Documentation for the applicable
Einstein feature) and involves the storing and processing of Customer Data.
Any privacy, security or physical data location commitments in Customer’s applicable master
hosted on such infrastructure provider.
If Customer enables an Einstein feature in an instance or Org of the Services, such Einstein feature
may be enabled across applicable SFDC services subscriptions in such instance, and may process
Customer Data associated with such subscriptions, whether such subscriptions are purchased from SFDC
or from a reseller.
features for the purpose of improving and training similar or related services and features, and
Customer instructs SFDC to process its Customer Data for such purpose, provided, however, SFDC will
and aggregated results of such machine learning.
and conditions.
Documentation here:
https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=admin_einstein_features_setup.htm&type=5.
authorized to bind such Company to these terms and conditions.
Please provide Account Number(s) or Org ID(s) for all instances existing as of June 12, 2018 that
you would like to have access to Einstein features.
Instructions for locating Org IDs for your instances are available here:
Instances created on or after June 12, 2018 will be Einstein accessible and Org IDS for such
instances do not need to be listed on an executed Supplement:
student record information.
This restriction applies, but is not limited, to your parents, your spouse, or a sponsor.
records to a third party by submitting a completed Student Consent to Release Education Records.
You must complete a separate form for each third party to whom you grant access to information on
your education records.
The specific information will be made available only if requested by the authorized third party.
The College does not automatically send information to a third party.
Submit your completed form to Registrar’s Office, at Cogswell College.
directory suppression information that you have set up in your student record.
However, it is the College policy not to release certain aspects of the student records (e.g.,
registration, grades, GPA) over the phone or via email.
Grades/GPA, demographic, registration, student ID number, academic progress status, and/or
enrollment information Billing statements, charges, credits, payments, past due amounts, and/or
collection activity Financial aid awards, application data, disbursements, eligibility, and/or
financial aid satisfactory academic progress Judicial and Student Life records When the party named
at least one personal security question answer.
You, the student, should choose at least one personal security question and provide it to your third
party contact.
If your third party contact is not able to correctly provide the correct answer to the personal
security question, Cogswell College will not release any information from your record.
If you forget or misplace your personal security question, Cogswell College can provide it to you by
sending it to your College email address or you may come to the Registrar’s Office on campus to make
changes or get a reminder.
and Privacy Act of 1974, 20 U.S.C.
§1232g (“FERPA”).
Pursuant to FERPA, the College is unable to release educational records to you without first
providing notice of the subpoenas to the student.
respond, the College will release the records to you at that time.
By signing this form, you give us permission to debit your account for the amount indicated on or
Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined a copy of my individual income tax return
and accompanying schedules and statements for the tax year ending December 31, 2018, and to the best
of my knowledge and belief, it is true, correct, and complete.
I further declare that the information I provided to my electronic return originator (ERO),
number or individual tax identifcation number) and the amounts shown in Part I above agree with the
information and amounts shown on the corresponding lines of my electronic income tax return.
estimated tax payments as shown on my return and on form FTB 8455, California e-fle Payment Record
for Individuals, or a comparable form.
If applicable, I declare that direct deposit refund amount on line 3 agrees with the direct deposit
authorization stated on my return.
If I have fled a joint return, this is an irrevocable appointment of the other spouse/RDP as an
agent to authorize an electronic funds withdrawal or direct deposit.
If the processing of my return or refund is delayed, I authorize the FTB to disclose to my ERO,
payment of my tax liability, I remain liable for the tax liability and all applicable interest and
the copy of my electronic income tax return.
I have selected a personal identifcation number (PIN) as my signature for my electronic income tax
return and, if applicable, my Electronic Funds Withdrawal Consent.
I will enter my PIN as my signature on my 2018 e-fled California individual income tax return.
Check this box only if you are entering your own PIN and your return is fled using the Practitioner
I certify that the above numeric entry is my PIN, which is my signature for the 2018 California
individual income tax return for the taxpayer(s) indicated above.
I confrm that I am submitting this return in accordance with the requirements of the Practitioner
1345, 2018 Handbook for Authorized e-fle Providers.
Brick masonry exhibits superior thermal mass, that is, the ability to store and slowly release heat
at a later time.
Current energy codes take thermal mass into account by requiring a lower R-value for mass walls,
such as brick cavity walls (see Technical Notes 4B).
Passive solar design can be used in conjunction with cavity wall construction to take full advantage
of masonry's thermal mass properties.
Solar design techniques, such as the use of building orientation, daylighting and thermal mass, can
It is best to incorporate passive solar techniques in a building during the preliminary design
phase.
Technical Notes 43 Series has information on passive solar design techniques.
Other references are available to assist in design [4, 8].
fire resistance.
separation walls for compartmentation in buildings.
By using compartmentation, the spread of fire can be halted.
Technical Notes 16 Series describes fire ratings and applicable design conditions.
fire resistance method.
This approach is approved by the model building codes for determining fire ratings of walls that are
The fire rating of cavity walls can be calculated using Technical Notes 16B.
I/We hereby authorize Hillcrest Community Cooperative to obtain my/our consumer report/credit
 I agree to obtain an excused absence from my school office for Election Day.
It is my responsibility to collect and complete any and all school assignments for the day.
complete the remaining assignments.
In this context, extenuating circumstances include non-academic factors beyond the student’s control
that make it impossible to continue: severe illness, death in the immediate family, drastic change
in work or financial situation, or other unusual and extreme situations as deemed appropriate by the
the academic term.
If the instructor grants the request, the instructor and student must promptly complete, sign, and
The contract specifies (1) all assignments yet to be completed, (2) the date(s) by which the
remaining work is to be submitted to the instructor, and (3) the default grade if the student
received no points for missing work.
than that last day of next regular academic term.
final grade, or an F if no grade is indicated.
Only the rarest of situations will warrant additional extensions, and they require the expressed
surcharge not related to Costa Rica Rainforest Outward Bound School.
I will inform my financial institution that there will be an international charge made from Costa
Rica and to approve such charge.
By signing this form, I acknowledge that I understand the setting and conditions of this course and
accordance with the policy.
average, less than diabetes patients.
above the diabetes patient level after several months.
This finding suggests that, for survivors, a diagnosis of cancer, like the diagnosis of a chronic
condition, results in persistent healthcare spending.
With some variation over time and across cancer types, care for the cancer population involves the
six categories of services analyzed.
The bars in Figures 2a-2c indicate that some patients had significant use of facility services in
the year preceding the cancer diagnosis.
For both colorectal and lung cancers, total spending on hospital inpatient increased as a percentage
of total immediately following diagnosis.
In all three cancers, the chemotherapy share of total spending increased rapidly in the first few
Radiation therapy represented a small share of total spending except for breast cancer patients in
the year following diagnosis.
a) O resultado está previsto para o início de agosto e será divulgado no site do Campus de
certificado com carga horária de 40 horas somente para os alunos que frequentarem pelo menos 85% do
curso.
For example, some countries require treating clinicians to obtain approval prior to prescribing or
Medicines may be selected based on criteria such as evidence-based guidelines, contractual
An important consideration for implementing prior authorization is to strike a balance between the
For example, a process review in a breast oncology practice in the USA found that prior
only 2.5% of prescriptions Non-price policies could promote efficiency.
O controle social é uma das diretrizes da Lei 11.445/2007 (Lei Nacional de Saneamento Básico) e ele
é exercido, também, por meio de consulta pública, quando decisões precisam ser tomadas na gestão dos
serviços de saneamento básico nos municípios.
Este formulário deve ser preenchido com sugestões para a melhoria ou ajuste da minuta do Contrato de
O envio de sugestões pode ser feito de 24 de julho a 04 de agosto de 2020 exclusivamente para o
* O código do curso pode ser consultado no site https://emec.mec.gov.br/, e não precisa ser
especificado para os cursos de pós-graduação.
** O nome do curso deve estar conforme descrito no histórico escolar.
*** Informe o percentual de conclusão do curso.
Esta informação pode ser consultada no Sistema Integrado de Gestão de Atividades Acadêmicas – SIGAA.
Chemo = chemotherapy and includes targeted therapy and immunotherapy drugs; RPLND = retroperitoneal
Source: National Cancer Data Base, 2013.102.
should be particularly mindful of risk factors such as high cho- lesterol, high blood pressure,
obesity, and smoking.
Consultation about fertility risks prior to treatment and referral for sperm banking as appropriate
The rise is thought to be partly due to increased detection because of more sensitive diagnostic
procedures, resulting in some overdiagno- ses of papillary thyroid cancers.135 However, observed
may be associated with the rise in risk factors such as obesity.136-138.
It is estimated that there were 805,750 people living with a past diagnosis of thyroid cancer in the
US as of January 1, 2016, and an additional 64,300 will be diagnosed in 2016.
If Employer / Company prefers or requires their own form, use account type, number and ABA routing
number below to help complete their form 4) Mail form directly to Employer / Company (Note: It is
I (we) authorize the above named Company to initiate credit entries to my Bank of America Checking
I (we) acknowledge that the origination of the ACH transactions to my (our) account must comply with
to direct the financial institution to return said funds and I authorize the financial institution
to act on the Company's direction and to return said funds.
This authority will remain in effect until Employer/Company has received written notification from
me of its termination in such time and in such manner as to afford Company and financial institution
a reasonable opportunity to act on it.
The abstracts from 618 original scientific articles published in the Journal of Nuclear Cardiology
(JNC) were used for this research and experiments.
1995 to 2004.
We have used this resource to build the knowledgebase of relevant terms and relations.
Ansel  MacLaughlin                        John  Wihbey                        David   A. Smith
College of Computer and          College of Arts, Media and Design          College of Computer and
Information Science                 Northeastern University                 Information Science
Competency                                    Essential Need  Rating 2016
Critical Thinking/Problem   Solving                                             4.7
Professionalism/Work    Ethics                                                  4.7
Oral/Written  Communication                                                     4.4
Information  Technology   Application                                           3.9
Career  Management                                                              3.6
(         ) Retorno     ao   trabalho                        (         ) Exoneração
(         ) Licença     p/ acompanhar         cônjuge        (         ) Licença     Interesse       (          ) Licença    Curso
IDENTIFICAÇÃO:
Cargo:             Petrobras                                    Secretaria:      Eduardo Kugelmas
Retiree Brian Anderson                                          SSN  306-42-5646
Bank USA  Bank
City New York                                                          State NY     Zip 10023
ABA Routing Number  65378098              Account Number  01 2310 630 0 0002
Type of Bank Account (check one):  □ Checking Account Please provide a Voided Check
Name:                  Rafal Cieslak
INSTITUTO FEDERAL DE EDUCAÇÃO, CIÊNCIA E TECNOLOGIA DO AMAPÁ
FORMULÁRIO            DE  INSCRIÇÃO                                 Nº
Nome    do  estudante:  juan   zeballos
Modalidade:      (   ) Integrado      (    ) Subsequente          (    ) Superior
Horário:   (   )  Manhã            (   ) Tarde         (   ) Noite      (   )  Integral
Endereço:    Av.  Agua    Verde,   2140    - 223  - Agua    Verde
Bairro:          Agua    Verde                                   Município:    -
Celular   (Aluno):      +55-98982965894                          Celular   (responsável):
Data  de  nascimento:     30      / 04    / 1996        RG:      49.050.809.1           CPF:    03173940458
PROCEDÊNCIA            ESCOLAR
Ensino   Fundamental:        Escola    das  Nações                      (  ) Escola   Pública    (  ) Escola   particular
Ensino   Médio    (Para  aluno  do  subsequente    e superior)           (  ) Escola  Pública    (  ) Escola   particular
(   ) Colega   do  curso
(   )  Site do  IFAP
(   )  Seção  de  Gerenciamento      da  Assistência   ao  Estudante   – SEGAE
(  ) Uniforme                            (   ) Alimentação                          (  ) Moradia
(  ) Material   didático                 (   )Transporte
ITINERÁRIO          DO   DESLOCAMENTO               (caso  solicite o  auxílio-transporte)
Eu  gostaria   de  solicitar um  serviço   de  transporte   o mais   rápido  possível.
Guideline          This is a patient-care strategy that reflects a moderate degree of clinical certainty. The term guideline  implies the use of
Level 2 Evidence  or a consensus  of Level 3 Evidence.
Option             This is a patient-care strategy that reflects uncertain clinical use. The term option implies insufficient, inconclusive, or con-
flicting evidence or conflicting expert opinion.
Pós-Graduação   em Geografia - PPGEO,  na área de Concentração Paisagens Naturais e Meio Ambiente, na Linha de
Pesquisa:      câncer                                                                            , sob
cujo trabalho se denomina:
Análise  de  imagem
NOME   DO  ALUNO(A):   Miguel Pryor
TÍTULO   DA  DISS./TESE:  Análise de imagem  para  câncer
NOME   DO  ORIENTADOR(A):     Michael Edgar Perlman
DATA   DO  INÍCIO DO  CURSO:   12/4/2020
DATA   APROVAÇÃO     DO  PROJETO    DE DISSERTAÇÃO/     TESE: 1/4/2020
PERÍODO   DA  PRORROGAÇÃO       PARA      2 meses               (incluir mês para avaliação da banca)
Parecer do Orientador(a)
Sem  comentários
Assinatura do aluno                       Assinatura Orientador(a)             Data:  12/04/2020 / /
(full name)
account  indicated  below  for $    5000          upon  receipt  of this authorization. Apply  this payment
(amount  in USD$)
to NAL  Account  #     703739215       in the name   of Salvador   Kuphal
Special payment   instructions  (optional)        NA
Account  Type:     Visa  (debit cards or prepaid only)       MasterCard          Discover
Cardholder   Name:             Fallon  Kuphal                                       (as it appears on the card)
Expiration  Date:       04/21                        CVV2  (3 digit number on back of card): 521
Billing Address:   4223   E  Mission   Blvd                       City, State, Zip: Fayetteville,  AR,  72703
fallon.kuphal@gmail.com
Phone:   1-303-801-3676      x419   Email:                                                (to receive a receipt)
All information on the form must be complete (fully filled in), accurate, and legible. NAL reserves the right to
refuse to process a payment if the form is incomplete, if there are errors in the information, or all or some of the
Name:  Leanne  Jasset                                     Date:
Chairman   of the Board of Health                         May 6, 2020
Victor Santos  Martins Gomes                                                     286
Vem   requerer  à Il.ma Sr.ª Chefe  da Divisão  de  Saúde   Complementar,   nos   termos   do  Ato
( ) medicamentos
( ) suplementos  alimentares
R  Livio Moreira   , 08    de  04                  de 20 19
Cidade  Teresina PI              Estado               Código Postal (CEP) 64002-595
Eu  Fernando Bezerra Coelho                       autorizo o uso do meu cartão de
crédito para pagar a encomenda # 4827629                 (número de pedido) da
All Security Equipment   @  305-437-8247.    Please  contact us  if you have any  questions.
Thank  you,                                  PO   or QUOTE     #:      83020
Customer   Care  Dept.
Authorization        To  Charge      a  Purchase
Company     Name:                                   Card  Type   : Circle One
Amazon                                            American     Express        Visa
Signature:                                          Card  Number:
Print Signed  Name:                                 Card  Expiration Date:
Britt Kirlin                              09/21
Title:                                              Cardholder:  Full Name   as appears   on card
Verification  Code:                           $ Amount   of Purchase:     Purchase   Date:
We can not process without this! 587
1931  W   Deane   St
IS THE   ABOVE     ADDRESS       ALSO    YOUR     “SHIP   TO”   ADDRESS?              Yes         No
IF YOU  CHECKED    NO,  PLEASE    WRITE   YOUR   SHIP  TO ADDRESS     BELOW.
Street  Address:     N/A
Transaction  Date:                                  Transaction  Amount   :
09 06 2020                                             $5000
Card  Authorization  # :                            Entered  By  :
79387492                                  Annalee  Kirlin
Form 1106ASE
Idade:    18       Nasc:  03       /  03   / 1994   Cor:     branco         Raça:     Preto                               Nacionalidade:                  Brasileiro
Endereço      do  Paciente:          R.  Gen.     Canabarro,       485    - Maracana
25
Clínica:      Hospital     Sirio   Libanes                                        Alunos:
Cidade:        Salvador                                       Estado:       BA        CEP:       41720-200                   Tel:  (98)   99197-7437
E-mail:   chaddad@kpx.com.br
Tipo   do  material    obtido:   (  ) tecido   mole      (   ) osso     (   ) dente      (  ) esfregaço        (   ) punção       (   ) outros:
Lesão    fundamental:       (  ) pápula      (  ) nódulo      (   ) vesícula     (   ) bolha     (  ) erosão      (  )   ulceração       (  ) mancha        (  ) fístula    (  ) Intraóssea
(   )  tumefação        (   ) outros:
Tempo  de evolução -
Exames  imaginológicos (anexar) : -
Breve resumo  clínico:
NA
Data e horário da biópsia: 03 / 03 / 2020   -     03 :
NA
Curitiba                  , 03  / 03 / 2020
CLAIM  TYPE                     CPT  CODES                                        REVENUE    CODES
OUTPATIENT                      99201-99205, 99211-99215, 99241-99245, 99341-99345, 051X, 0520-0523, 0526-0529, 057X-059X, 082X-
99411, 99412, 99420, 99429, 99455, 99456
NON-ACUTE    INPATIENT          99304-99310, 99315, 99316, 99318, 99324-99328,    0118, 0128, 0138, 0148, 0158, 019X, 0524,
ACUTE  INPATIENT                                                                  010X, 0110-0114, 0119, 0120-0124, 0129, 0130-
OBSERVATION                     99217-99220, 99224-99226
EMERGENCY     DEPARTMENT        99281-99285                                       0450-0452,0456,0459, 0981
Declaro que concordo  em  participar da pesquisa  (título):
Nome:  Miguel Pryor
Assinatura:
Nome:  Michael Edgar  Perlman
No  caso de participantes analfabetos:
Presenciei a solicitação de consentimento, esclarecimento sobre a pesquisa e aceite em
participar.
□    Cough                                                          □    Muscle or body aches
□    Fever of 100.4°F or higher or a sense of having a fever        □    Congestion/runny nose
□    Sore throat                                                    □    Unusual fatigue
□    Chills                                                         □    Headache
If you have further questions concerning COVID-19  you can  consult your healthcare provider, contact the state Call Center 1.800.525.0127 and
press #, or contact our office at 509.684.2262. More information can be found  on our website at www.netchd.org   or at
Health Officer
Published  9/17/2020
If you have further questions concerning COVID-19  you can  consult your healthcare provider, contact the state Call Center 1.800.525.0127 and
press #, or contact our office at 509.684.2262. More information can be found  on our website at www.netchd.org   or at
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov.
Health Officer
Published  9/17/2020
Name  of Person Making  Reservation:                                   Phone:
Cardholder Name  as it Appears on Credit Card:
Kieth  Crist
Credit Card Billing Address:
327  Baxter   Ln  Fayetteville,  AR  72701,   USA
1008                                                    03     06    2024
Credit Card Type: (Circle one)     Visa     MasterCard     Amex        Discover
Chase    bank
Other Expenses                                            $ 600
Authorized  Amount:                               Approval Code:                         Date:
Credit Card Security Check with Bank Complete  (Signature)  :
Vehicle Registered To:
State of Registration:
Vehicle License Plate #:
VEHICLE         #2    INFORMATION
Vehicle Registered To:
State of Registration:
Vehicle License Plate #:
Daytime  Phone:                                  Cardholder’s Signature:
SUNY
BROCKPORT
cancer  mortality                                    Yes /No  /Not clear
second  primary cancer                               Yes /No  /Not clear
quality of life                                      Yes /No  /Not clear
Autorização    de  Crédito  em  Conta   Bancária
Ocorrência:
Banco  do Brasil
Eu Andre   Debars                                                          , portador(a) do RG nº 40.464.525-2           ,
CPF  nº 02472176465                                  , na qualidade de    representante                                  ,
Nome   e número  do Banco               Nº da Agência                   Nº da Conta  e Dígito
DDD   e Fone Favorecido(a)              E-mail:
Endereço do Favorecido(a)                                               Bairro
2  - Matrícula                                       Cód.Dep.         3 - Nome    do  Beneficiário
027284011                                                          juan      zeballos
DADOS         DO     SOLICITANTE
03087750409                                                Eduardo          Kugelmas                                                                                   +55     98    98471-5918               PE
8 - Código do  Procedimento                     9 - Descrição                                                                                                                                 10 - Dente/Região    11- Face
4 -
5 -
6 -
11 -
14-
15-
Nenhum
PHONE    MODEL        Iphone  7 Plus
IMEI  #       358312068156162                        (15
under battery pack)
RG:  53.776.609-1     ORG. EXPED.:                      UF: RJ
BANCO: BANCO INTER - (Rio de Janeiro) AGÊNCIA:       CONTA: 53286-1
DATA  EMISSÃO: 12  / 10 / 2015
ENDEREÇO   DA ESCOLA:
R. Pedro Avancine, 73 - Real Parque
CIDADE:  São  Paulo       BAIRRO:  Real Parque          CEP: 05679-160
ENDEREÇO   DA ESTUDANTE:  Arthur Pesquisa
CIDADE: Rio de Janeiro    BAIRRO:  Maracana             CEP: 20271-204
TELEFONE  RESID. : +5598988578047
E-MAIL: arthur.pesquisa@gmail.com
11       2015
DATA    / 13 /                                                       ASSINATURA    DA CANDIDATA
COM     BOLSA     (  )          SEM   BOLSA      (  )
1. DADOS     ACADÊMICOS:
PROFº.   ORIENTADOR:        Andre  Debars
2. DADOS    DO  MONITOR:
CURSO:     Engenharia de software
TELEFONE     RESIDENCIAL:      +55-61-3321-3544                CELULAR:      (99) 3621-1043/5960
BANCO     Banco Máxima                Agência   -                 Conta Corrente   160.568-2
3. DADOS    DO  ORIENTADOR:
NOME:    Thomas  Leitz
Nº MATRÍCULA:      6026133                REGIME    DE  TRABALHO:      Não disponível
CARGO:     Banco Santander S.A             TITULAÇÃO:       Não disponível
Routing Number:                                 Account Number:
Email Address for Payment Notification:
Sign Here
Signature of U.S. person                                           Date 
Print Preparer’s Name 
Phone  Number  
Level of action required           Time frame  for action*                   Proposed  actions taken by:
Inter-                                                                    Health care
Option                                        Local    Regional  National  national   Short    Medium     Long    Government^      Payer^    Industry  professional Patients
Level of action required           Time frame  for action*                   Proposed  actions taken by:
Option                                        Local    Regional  National  national   Short    Medium     Long    Government^      Payer^    Industry  professional Patients
Enterprise Email:
Employee  Signature:                              Date:
ATAAPS  Team:
Graded or Ungraded:
Geraldo Coen
DATA DE NASCIMENTO:   11/02/1988    CIDADE:   Vitoria           UF: ES
CRM/SP:    7301063                  CPF:    15376410854
Diagnóstico  principal: Amebíase
Diagnósticos  secundários:   Pressão    alta
1- Cirurgia realizada:                                                         Cirurgião:
Procedimentos   / Exames   Invasivos            Não
3-                                                                                        Data:
Destino:       Residência      Atendimento   domiciliar        Transferência para:
Retornar:      Consultório em                      dias    Aos cuidados  de:.
Observações:   Tudo  bem
Diagnósticos  secundários:   Pressão    alta
Procedimentos   Cirúrgicos            Não
Tipo de anestesia / sedação:                                                           Data:
2- Cirurgia realizada:                                                         Cirurgião:
Procedimentos   / Exames   Invasivos            Não
1-                                                                                        Data:
2-                                                                                        Data:
3-                                                                                        Data:
Condições  de  Alta / Transferência
Curado           Melhorado           Inalterado         Óbito
Destino:       Residência      Atendimento   domiciliar        Transferência para:
Retornar:      Consultório em                      dias    Aos cuidados  de:.
Targeting         liver    stage      malaria        with    metformin
Iset  Medina     Vera,    …   , Maria    M.  Mota,    Liliana   Mancio-Silva
Research Article  Infectious disease  Microbiology
Student’s Name:                                                                     Date:
Current School:                                                      Current Grade:
Parent’s Signature:                                              Telephone:
Parent's Email:
• Unit-level  medical   care                  • Advanced    trauma   and                   • Providing   support   to units without         • Most  definitive  medical   care  in
• Immediate    life saving  measures          Management      emergency     medical        organic   medical   assets                       military health  system
• Combat    medics                            WHO:                                         treatment   facility (MTF)   with proper         •  Physicians/physician     assistants
(l8D)                                         up to damage     control surgery             •  Medical   personnel   in MTF                  •  Post-op   rehabilitation
• Medical   technicians                       • Prepare   for Role  3 and  4               CAPABILITIES:                                    •  Significant/life-threatening
prevention   and  care                        • Stabilize post-surgical   cases   for      •  Specialty   surgery                           •  Usage   of CONUS      and  civilian
prevention                                    CAPABILITIES:                                •  Evacuating    patients  from  supported       WHERE:
call                                          • Limited  x-rays                            •  Physical   therapy                            robust  overseas    facilities
• First aid and   triage                      • Laboratory   access                        •  Holding   200+   patients
WHERE:                                        WHERE:                                       •  Medical   treatment   facility
• Within  the  unit /on battlefield           • Within  the  unit/FOB
LIMITATIONS:                                  LIMITATIONS:
• Holding   patients                          • Holding   many   patients
• Healing   serious  injury or  illness       • Holding   for more   than  72 hours
This table  was   extracted    from  Cubano,    M.  A., &  Butler, F. K. (2018).   Emergency     War    Surgery.   (pp.  19-22).   Fort  Sam   Houston,   TX: Borden    Institute, US  Army   Medical
A. Official reserve assets  (Note  1)                                                 93,940
(1) Foreign currency  reserves  (in convertible foreign currencies)                   92,525
(a) Securities (Note  2)                                                              81,425
of which:  issuer headquartered   in Hong  Kong  but located abroad                         0
(ii) banks headquartered   in Hong  Kong   (Note 4)                                     2,726
of which:  located abroad                                                                   0
of which:  located in Hong  Kong                                                        4,524
(2) IMF reserve  position                                                                   0
(4) gold (including gold deposits  and, if appropriate, gold swapped)                      19
—volume    in fine troy ounces   (66,916  ounces  at USD  276)
(5) other reserve assets  (specify)                                                     1,396
—financial  derivatives  (Note  5)                                                        -81
—loans   to nonbank  nonresidents                                                           0
—other   (Note  6)                                                                      1,477
B. Other  foreign currency assets  (specify)   (Note  7)                                   19
—deposits   not included  in official reserve assets                                       16
—loans   not included in official reserve assets
—financial  derivatives not included  in official reserve assets
Task                                        Deadline
Changes  to the structure of the database                       June-December   2010
Start Medline  search of relevant articles                      November   2010
search. First selection of papers for complete review
Report  to WCRF   number  of papers by  study type for          28 February  2011
establishing priorities¶
Select papers for data extraction!†                             30 May  2012
Data analysis                                                   30 August  2012
Preparation of report for Panel of experts¶                     30 September   2012
Company    Name:    AMAZON
Name   on Card:     Megan  Wepfer
Zip Code:           60613
Contact  Name:      Megan  Wepfer
Phone   Number:     (248)628-2538
Expiration  Date:   03-03-2022       Type  Select:   Visa     Mastercard     AMEX
Card  Security  Code  [card verification value (CVV) – 3 digits on the back of card or if
Notes  you  would  like to include (a valid through date, a credit limit, a particular job or
CURSO:  Ciência da Computação 101     MATRÍCULA:   3900661
SITUAÇÃO ATUAL – NOTA:       FREQÜÊNCIA:       ANO/PERÍODO:
Passando por várias consultas médicas, é necessário
que a gerência entenda a gravidade do caso e ajude na medida do necessário.
DISCIPLINA: Ciência da Computação                   CÓDIGO:  CS  101
SITUAÇÃO ANTERIOR – NOTA:      FREQÜÊNCIA:       ANO/PERÍODO:
SITUAÇÃO ATUAL – NOTA:       FREQÜÊNCIA:       ANO/PERÍODO:
que a gerência entenda a gravidade do caso e ajude na medida do necessário.
DATA/ASS.  PROF. MINISTRANTE                  DATA/ASS.  CHEFE   DEPARTAMENTO
Autorizo, Em 11 / 16 / 20                     Alterado em 11 / 16 / 20
DigitalCommons@UNO
Information Systems and Quantitative Analysis                Department  of Information Systems and
Credit  Card  Information
Card Type:    ☐  MasterCard         ☐ VISA         ☐ AMEX
Card Number:        5466307368374711
Monthly  Amount  $ 5000              (total annual membership investment / 12 months)
Signature                                                   Date
Please return completed form to Mary England. mary@cccbi.org  / phone 610-725-9100 / fax 866-584-4109
Program   Options                                                         Instructional
Delivery/Components
Structured   English  Immersion    (SEI)
    Instruction is overwhelmingly  in English
    Instructional support using  the student’s primary  language
English  Language    Mainstream    (ELM)
    Instruction is overwhelmingly  in English
For students  with “reasonable  fluency” (i.e., overall CELDT level of             ELD
Alternative  Programs
    Instruction is in the student’s primary language  and  in
Required  Criteria                    Newman   Crows   Landing  Unified School  District
(California Education  Code  Section  313[d])
English Language  Proficiency Assessment   (CELDT)     Advanced  including Domains
California Standards Test (English Language  Arts)     350 or above
California Standards Test (Mathematics)                350 or above
Parental Opinion and Consultation
Teacher  Evaluation                                    than a “C”
Optional: Other district multiple measures
DE     SANIDADE               FÍSICA        –   ESAFI        –   CADETE            PMPR         –   2020
- Refração:          OD    25                                              OE    22
- Acuidade      visual   sem    correção      (utilizando-se      da  tabela   optométrica       de   Snellen):
OD:   03           / 03           OE:   05           / 05           Binocular:     03          / 01
OD:   (   ) Normal    (  ) Alterado
OE:   (   ) Normal    (  ) Alterado
- Fundoscopia:
OD:   (   ) Normal    (  ) Alterado
OE:   (   ) Normal    (  ) Alterado
- Teste   de   estereopsia      / visão   de   profundidade:       (   ) Normal    (   ) Alterado:
- Motilidade     Ocular:
OD:   (   ) Normal    (  ) Alterado:
Binocular:    (   ) Normal    (  ) Alterado:
- Discromatopsia         (através    do   teste   de  visão   cromática      - Ishihara):
(   ) Ausente      (   ) Leve    (   ) Moderada        (   ) Grave
- Realizou     cirurgia    refrativa:      (   ) Não      (   ) Sim:    Data   da  cirurgia         /        /
Local,  data:   Rio   de   Janeiro                 ,  03   / 03    / 2020
IDENTIFICAÇÃO    DO  PACIENTE
ETIQUETA
Prontuário: 652478       Registro:                    Idade: 60 anos
registrado e decido:
  Deixar de ser assistido nesse hospital, em razão de: A condição é boa
  Deixar as dependências  do Hospital sem a presença de um  familiar e/ou responsável.
consequência  desta minha  decisão.
  Responsável:
Nome:  Eduardo  Kugelmas                                       Assinatura:
Grau de parentesco:  Brother                   Documento   de identidade: 03087750409
Itajubá, 02       de  12                           de 2020          Hora:  4:00pm
Prefix           First Name                                         Last Name
Current Degree(s)                           Email
3. Applicant  Signature
Signature                                                             Date
4. Mentor/Supervisor    Signature
IASP Membership    ID (If applicable)                    Email
RAI                           Moves                            RAI                          Moves
BESP2                         1–3                              ESPj2                        1–3
BESP3                         3                                ESPj3                        1–2–3–1–2–3–2–1
BESP4                         1–3                              ESPj4                        1–2–3
BESP7                         1–3                              ESPj7                        1–2–1–2–3
BESP8                         3                                ESPj8                        1–2–1–2–3
BESP10                        1–2–1–3                          ESPj10                       1–2–3
Nº DE PROTOCOLO FORNECIDO PELA CENTRAL DE ATENDIMENTO
TITULAR DO PLANO                                                                                                         PLANO
Thomas    Leitz                                                                                                          apólice de seguro de saúde 2019
ENDEREÇO                                                                                                                     NÚMERO
BAIRRO                                                           CIDADE                                 UF       CEP
011   55  61  99236-9548            18-  3902-3500                       thomas@leitz.ca
NOME DO BENEFICIÁRIO QUE RECEBEU O ATENDIMENTO
DADOS    BANCÁRIOS     DO  TITULAR   DO   PLANO   PARA   REEMBOLSO
BANCO                                          AGÊNCIA                     Nº DA CONTA                      TIPO DE CONTA
Banco    do  Brasil                                                        0009795493                          CORRENTE      POUPANÇA
NOME DO TITULAR DA CONTA                                                                            CPF DO TITULAR DA CONTA
Elinton   André    Chiaradia                                                                        45086710987
DESCRIÇÃO     DOS  DOCUMENTOS       ANEXOS    (recibo, relatório e nome   do  médico)               Valores  (recibos e notas  fiscais)
Jonas    Gonçalves
NOME  E CARIMBO DO RECEPTOR
Barueri,   Brazil              01/01/2019
LOCAL E DATA
Name   (First, Last)                                                        School                         Grade
Child DOB
Parent  name                                                            Phone   number
Cell Phone  Carrier                                   OK to text                          Parent  DOB
Total household   net income*                                     How   many   members    in household?
*Monthly  household  income (includes all income of all household members): salary, social security, public assistance, child care
2019-2020  Athletic Calendar:                                                Regular         Fee with
Fee        Scholarship
Registration deadline: Sept. 18, 2019
Winter Sports:
Registration deadline: Oct. 30, 2019
7th & 8thGrade Boys Basketball  1/13-2/20/2020                  $65             $20
Registration deadline: Jan. 9, 2020
7th & 8thGrade Girls Basketball 2/24-4/9/2020                   $65             $20
Spring Sports:
Track & Field                   4/13-5/21/2020                  $65             $20
Data de nascimento:   03 / 03 / 1994     Sexo: ( ) feminino ( ) masculino
CPF:   03087750409                       Id funcional: 88754564
Cidade de  moradia: Recife                 Cidade  de trabalho: Recife
Coleta   de  PCR   prévia?    (  ) sim    Data   da  coleta:        /     /                  (  )não
Resultado     do  PCR:   (  ) positivo    CV:                          (   ) negativo
Lote:   5554661
Método:     (  ) capilar   (  )venoso     ( )plasma     (  )soro
Resultado:          (   )POSITIVO
2. Location                              Where  is the pain? Is it local to the incisional site, referred, or elsewhere?
5. Aggravating  and  relieving           What  makes  the  pain better or worse?
6. Previous treatment                    What  types of treatment  have  been  effective or ineffective in the past to relieve the pain?
8. Barriers to pain assessment           What  factors might  affect accuracy or reliability of pain assessments128 (eg, cultural or language barriers,
The   Philosophy        and   History
of  Osteopathic        Medicine
Not Just Manipulative Medicine
Morte  por Acidente                 Invalidez por Doença                             Diárias de Internação Hospitalar                 Outros:
Av.            Vargas,            -
Endereço:     Getúlio              1454     Assis                                               Nº         Complemento:
61 3462-5207
Bairro:                                        Cidade: BrasilIjuí                               UF: RS    Cep: 98700-000       Tel:(   )
P  r o t e  c t i n  g ,   M   a i n  t a i n  i n g    a n  d   I m   p r o  v i n  g   t h  e   H  e  a l t h   o  f   A  l l  M   i n n  e s o  t a  n s
PERÍODO DO AFASTAMENTO:                      N° DE DIAS DE AFASTAMENTO:
DATA DA ENTREGA DO ATESTADO:                 ÚLTIMO DIA DE TRABALHO:
1 – IDENTIFICAÇÃO DO SERVIDOR  REQUERENTE:
CPF:
E-MAIL:
TEL. RESIDENCIAL:                                     TEL. CELULAR:
CAMPO  PARA  OBSERVAÇÃO:
I this Randall is the Doyle place for full name authorize the Department of Fish and Wildlife to charge my credit
(Full Name)
(Amount)                     (Date)
This Goods is the line that provides the description of what is being paid for with real green money yayy
(Description of Good/Services)
Billing Address  This 9222 is Sandra the billing Grace address Rd and its good Phone This (952) is where 313-2110 the phone x740 123
City, State, Zip This Southport, is where the FL location 32409 goes and itss Email This randall.doyle@gmail.com is where the email goes
Account  Type        Visa           Mastercard           AMEX             Discover
Cardholder  Name   This Randall is where Doyle the name for the money person goes and please write legibly and
Expiration  Date Please 03 01 Put 2024 the Date here CVV2 Please 446 put the number here
Código Postal    01310      100
Sugestão / Reclamação  a apresentar:
Industrial                            Knowledge
Progress/                         Revolution                            Revolution
Outcomes
Hanging  Fruit                           Divergence
Pre-Industrial
Industrial                    Connectivity
Progress  in Natural and                              Values                        Values
Social Science Theory  and
Practice                                              Paradigm                      Paradigm
Authorized  dates  for charges:     03    07  2020
Credit card  type:    Visa                        Expiration  date:     03   / 23
Mo      Yr
I will be paying for:           Banquet   Box Handling   Fees (Inbound   Only)
Cardholder’s  name:   Joleen Bauch
(Please print or type name as it appears on card)
On-site  Contact:            Barney  Crona
Phone:            607-240-6266             Cell:          607-240-6299
Number   of packages   being shipped  in:           5
SHIPPING  INFORMATION   & CHARGES   / DELIVERY  TO  BANQUET   ROOM
Credit card  type:    Visa                        Expiration  date:     03   / 23
Mo      Yr
Account  number:      213627054
On-site  Contact:            Barney  Crona
Number   of packages   being shipped  in:           5
SHIPPING  INFORMATION   & CHARGES   / DELIVERY  TO  BANQUET   ROOM
Drayage Charges:  Boxes will be charged  a handling  fee of $50.00  for the first box and $25  for each additional
box, per transport  (heavy  or oversized may  increase  price). Pallets/crates at $100  per  100lbs with  a 200  lb
5pm  Monday   through  Friday, all boxes must  be labeled and  ready by 4pm   for same day  service.
Research  Unit Human-Computer      Interaction, Institute for Medical Informatics,Statistics & Documentation,
Medical  University Graz,  Austria
andreas.holzinger@medunigraz.at
Last                                                                     First                          M.I.
Street Address                                                                                           Apartment/Unit #
City                                                                                   State             ZIP Code
Date  of Birth:       07/06/1953                                   Serial Number:            N/A
Last                                                        First
Names    of Dependant     Children:                                                              Dates   of Birth:
Brian Usher                                                                                     11/01/1967
Full Name:        Perry                                                                         Timothy
Last                                                                      First                         M.I.
Address:          8520 W Redwing Dr
Street Address                                                                                          Apartment/Unit  #
Franklin                                                                             WI                53132
Relationship:      Spouse
Interviews with  125
share clinical evidence and         understand   the
clinical trial data to inform    influence) comparable               reimbursement                  Ibrance for the treatment  of
pegged:  Kadcyla, Perjeta       Assessing  potential               positive, HER2-negative
and Afinitor which  had         prescription numbers   and         metastatic breast  cancer
Dec        Phase  II clinical
2009:                                               prices between  US$9  000       revenue  at prices between         with no prior endocrine-
trial commenced
and US$12  000                  US$9  000 and  US$12  000          based therapy
|                                                                   |                               1                          I
2011                       2012                       2013                       2014                       2015
for the final price
Phase  II clinical trial was    Survey >80  health plan            consideration  to the
reviewed                        officials to understand any        benchmark   price of Afinitor
restrictions they might put        (US$10  537)
on for medicine  monthly
Nº Matrícula IPSEMG:              CPF:                                 RG:
652417895                         083844904-22                         44.198.849.0
Rua/Avenida:                                               Nº:            Complemento:
Av. Borges  de Medeiros, 1501 - Centro Historico
Bairro:                                                            Telefone Residencial:
90020-020          +559832494938
Porto Alegre                                        RS
E-Mail:                                                            Telefone Comercial:
lfcs@centroin.com.br
LEIA ATENTAMENTE   AS INFORMAÇÕES   DESTE  FORMULÁRIO  ANTES  DE FAZER A SUA OPÇÃO
JÁ POSSUO   Assistência à Saúde do IPSEMG   e desejo continuar
NÃO  ADERIR   a Assistência à Saúde prestada pelo IPSEMG
somente  no  de maior remuneração.       máximo.CEP:
Declaro estar ciente que:
Denominators:
persons
No. deaths from
cancer*
cancer recurrence*
primary cancer
recurrence*
name:  Clarke
First name: Michael
Date of birth (MM/DD/YYYY):    06/14/1989                  SEVIS ID: 948615
Job start date: 12/4/2020                           Job end date (if applicable): present
Employer  name:  Boston   Scientific
95-2549734                                             full
No  comments
Supervisor first name: Patricia
Material                   Minimum    Thickness                         Advantages.                             Disadvantages:
Slainiess Steel                 0.01 in, (0.25 mm}               Extremely  durable,  non-staining           Difficult to sokder and form,
Celd  Rolled Copper               10 ogi?   (3100 gim*)                    Extremely   durable                 May  stain adjacent  masonry,
high cost
Copper  Laminates                 5 ogift” (1500 gim*)                Easy  to form,aasy  to join,           Some   coatings  net compatibte
non-staining                       with adjacent  materials
EPDM                         30 mils (0.8 mm)                     Flexible, easy  to form,                     Metal  drip edge
aasy  to form, easy  to join,              dimensional   instability,
PYC                         30 mils (0.8 mm)                     Flexible, easy  to form,                      ‘Questionable
low cast                                easily tom,
edge  required
Galvanized   Steel               6.045  in. (0.38 mm)                        Non-staining                           Difficult te solder,
subject  to early
corrasion  at bends
Unidade de Atendimento: 4818
Cardholer’s Name:
Company:
Billing Address:
Card Type  (Check One): AMEX        VISA      MASTERCARD
Billing Address:
Phone  #:
Card Type  (Check One): AMEX        VISA      MASTERCARD
Expiration Date:     /       Security Code:
Use  For All Projects:  Yes
5)   Biometric data:
a)   personal data  resulting from specific technical processing  relating to the physical,
physiological or behavioural  characteristics of a natural person, which  allow or confirm
the unique identification of that natural person, such as facial images  or dactyloscopic
provision of health care services, which  reveal information about  his or her health status
7)   Genetic  data:
a)   personal data  relating to the inherited or acquired genetic characteristics of a natural
person  which give unique  information  about the physiology  or the health of that natural
person  and which  result, in particular, from an analysis of a biological sample from the
natural person in question
8)   Pseudonymisation:
a)   processing  of personal data  in such a manner  that the personal  data can  no longer be
attributed to a specific data subject without the use of additional information, provided
organizational measures   to ensure  that the personal data  are not attributed to an
Av. Brigadeiro Luís Antônio, 278 - CEP 01318-901 - São Paulo/SP
O(A) SR(A).    Geraldo      Coen
R.G.  43.524.045-6                                 COMPARECEU     A ESTE  SERVIÇO   DE SAÚDE   PARA:
(  ) CONSULTA
(  ) ACOMPANHAR     FAMILIAR
(  ) MARCAR   / FAZER  / RETIRAR   EXAME
(  ) FISIOTERAPIA
(  ) INTERNAÇÃO    HOSPITALAR    DE            /          /               A           /          /
OUTROSSIM,    ATESTAMOS    QUE:
(  ) NADA  APRESENTA     QUE  IMPOSSIBILITE   SEU  RETORNO    AO TRABALHO
(  ) DEVERÁ   PERMANECER     EM  REPOUSO    POR                 (                                       ) DIAS
CID  582751                                    ASSINATURA     DO  PACIENTE
A APOSIÇÃO     DO  CID (CÓDIGO   INTERNACIONAL      DE  DOENÇAS)    NESTE   DOCUMENTO      DEVERÁ    NECESSARIAMENTE       TER   CIÊNCIA  E
FORMAL    CONCORDÂNCIA      DO
A  APM   NÃO   SE  RESPONSABILIZA       PELO   CONTEÚDO     DESTE   ATESTADO,     O  QUAL   DEVE   SER
DE  MEDICINA    (CRM).
LOCAL   E DATA:
DE MEDICINA (CRM).
LOCAL E DATA:                     Vitoria                        , 05  de 02                  de 2018
TELEFONE: +5598981517978
SEGURO        DE   VIDA
EVENTO:
NOME      DO   ALUNO:                Arthur   Pesquisa
04/03/1995
DATA     DE   NASCIMENTO:             /           /                 ESTADO      CIVIL:    solteiro
ENDEREÇO:                     R. Gen.   Canabarro,    485   - Maracana,    Rio  de  Janeiro,   RJ
BAIRRO:                                                                             CEP:   20271-204
CURSO:      ( ) ELETROMECÂNICA                   ( ) INFORMÁTICA               ( ) SEGURANÇA          DO   TRABALHO
(  ) LICENCIATURA          EM    COMPUTAÇÃO
MODALIDADE:           ( ) INTEGRADO           ( ) SUBSEQUENTE             ( ) PROEJA      ( ) EDUCAÇÃO         SUPERIOR
MATRÍCULA:
I,    Robert       Comi                                             ,  the   attorney      for   Baker     &   Hostetler     LLP                            ,
Experimental   Arm          Control  Arm
No. Assigned   (to each
arm)
Median  age
No. judged  non-
compliant  (failed to
intervention)
•  Primary  cancer
recurrence
•  Second   primary
•  Quality of life
Add  this card to my account as the primary card to be charged  for all orders.
Cancel my  open  credit amount and  add this card to my account as the primary  card to be
Billing address of credit card: 6730 N 54th Ave  Glendale,   AZ  85301,  USA
Contact Name
Contact Phone
Contact Affiliation
Submission Topic
Please send this form along with attachments and links to info@clinicaltmssociety.org
Nome   do  usuário
No da matrícula   do usuário              Data  da solicitação        E-mail
Boa Vista            RR        6 9 3 0  5 - 6 7 0                   (98) 98910-3540
Residencial
Comercial
INTERNAÇÃO
AMBULATORIAIS                                                                  Celular
TOTAL
Device Serial Number: 558794
NÚMERO              COMPLEMENTO         BAIRRO
INFORMAÇÕES E PONTOS DE REFERÊNCIA
PROCESSO
NOTA
NO ESPAÇO ABAIXO, FAÇA UM  MAPA
PARA FACILITAR A LOCALIZAÇÃO DO
IMÓVEL, INDICANDO   PONTOS   DE
FÁCIL VISUALIZAÇÃO,  TAIS COMO
POSTOS DE COMBUSTÍVEL, BANCOS,
HOSPITAIS ETC.
Endereço      de  contato     (Institucional):     R. Antonio de Albuquerque, 330 - 12nd floor - Savassi, Belo Horizonte, MG, 30112-010, Brazil
Lever                   Germany                   UK                  Canada                      US
Medicaid
agreements
based                                          effectiveness)        effectiveness)         effectiveness)
Performance-linked                   Yes                   No                      No                       No
pricing
To be completed   by student: UMID  #                                 Uniqname
Name  of Student
Reason   for delay (check all that apply):
    Unexpected    research  problems
    Student  needs  more   time due  to the following  compelling    academic    reason(s)   (please review Eligibility Criteria above for the
If none of these  apply, please  contact an  International Student  and  Scholar  Advisor  at the International Center  at 734-764-9310.
Name                                            Title                                      Date
Signature                                              School or Department
Phone                                           Uniqname
Nome   completo:
Luiz F. C da Silva
Nome   para  constar na  urna eletrônica/cédula:
Luiz F. C da Silva
Título Profissional:                                    Nº Registro  Nacional:
engenheiro
Identidade:                               RS
Órgão  expedidor:            Escolha aqui a UF
CPF:                                                Data  de nascimento:
Av. Borges  de Medeiros,  1501  - Centro Historico, Porto Alegre, RS,  90020-020,  Brazil
CEP:                                                                        Escolha aqui a UF
90020-020
Cidade:  Porto Alegre                  UF:  RS
(informar DDD)                                      (informar DDD)
E-mail(s)  de contato:
lfcs@centroin.com.br
Nome  do paciente: Andre  Jakurski                                                   CPF: 053697644-92
Número  da carteirinha: 704 2012  0546   8582                    E-mail: ajakurski@jgp.com.br
Nome  do titular da conta: Andre Jakurski                                             CPF: 053697644-92
Guidance         for   Industry
Distributing Scientific and Medical
Publications on Risk Information for
Biological Products—Recommended
Practices
and  the capability to pay for it. At the same time, more and more data is being obtained  around  healthcare
processes   in the form  of Electronic  Health  Records  (EHR),  health  insurance  claims, medical   imaging
databases,  disease  registries, spontaneous  reporting sites, and clinical trials. As a result, data mining has
excited. However,  on the other hand,  it is accompanied  by challenges such  as 1) the unavailability of large
sources  of data to academic   researchers,  and 2) limited access  to data-mining  experts  [6]. But, still the
the poor, still remains as a  difficulty. In different dimensions, un-imaginable  services like separation  of
clinical selections are created by  the doctor’s experience  and  skill. Hospitals do have info systems,  call
Support  Systems,  Image  and  Scan  process systems.  However,  all hospitals do not have  these facilities or
Call support systems  with diagnosing  support  for naive doctors and for knowledgeable   doctors would  be a
diagnosis  can be  measured   and  used  to enhance   the task. Furthermore,   the transitional enquiry steps
recommend    the  optimal action. Providing  precious services  at cheap  prices may   be a major  constraint
encountered   by the  aid organizations  (hospitals, medical centers). Valuable  quality service denotes  the
correct diagnosing   of patients  and  providing  economical   treatment.  Acceptable   computer-based    info
of integrated  info through  huge  patient  repositories, there is a  swing  within the insight of clinicians,
Claim Number:                                                    Member   ID #:
(one claim per form)
Member   Name:                                                   Date of Service:
Provider Name:                                                   Billed Charges ($):               Contact Person:
Provider ID (TIN):                NPI:                           Provider Phone #:                 Provider Fax # (Required*):
Based upon  the following reason(s), we are requesting reconsideration of this claim.
Category  of Claim  Dispute
Provider: Please check applicable reason(s) and attach all supporting documentation.
Coordination  of Benefits Information:                              ☐      Payment   Amount:
☐        COB  – Related Adjustment  Primary Insurance
☐      Under/Overpayment     – Explain the reasoning:
☐        Retrospective Medical Review:
Attach reason Prior Authorization was not obtained for
service performed and attach medical records.              ☐      Service is not a duplicate – Explain the reasoning:
☐      Pre-Authorization  now  on file – #
For Internal Use Only:
Resolution:
Democratic               Republican                Constitution             Libertarian
affi liated with any political party.                             Unaffi liated (No party  preference)
Last Name:                                                                                Suffi x:
First Name:                                                              Middle   Name:
Date  of Birth:
Street Address                                              City                Zip Code
ER-2, Approved Secretary of State, May 2011
the following   political party:
Democratic                   Republican                   Constitution                 Libertarian
affi liated with any political party.                             Unaffi liated (No  party preference)
Last Name:                                                                                 Suffi x:
First Name:                                                               Middle   Name:
Date  of Birth:
Residence   Address:
NAME   (First, Middle, Last, Suffix)
SSN                                 Birthday (MM/DD/YYYY)
THIS  BOX   TO  BE  COMPLETED      BY  SSA/DDS     (as needed).  Additional  information to identify the
physicians, psychologists,  etc.) including mental        subject (e.g., other names  used), the specific source,  or the material to be disclosed:
health, correctional, addiction treatment, and  VA
• All educational sources  (schools, teachers,  records
• Consulting examiners   used  by SSA
compensation   programs
neighbors,  friends, public officials)
WHOM              The  Social Security  Administration    and  to the State  agency   authorized  to process   my  case  (usually called "disability determination
services"), including  contract  copy  services,  and  doctors  or other  professionals   consulted   during   the process.  [Also, for international
PURPOSE              Determining   my  eligibility for benefits, including looking at the combined  effect of any impairments   that by themselves  would  not meet  SSA's
EXPIRES    WHEN       This authorization is good  for 12 months  from the date  signed (below  my  signature).
• I authorize the use of a copy (including electronic copy)  of this form for the disclosure of the information described above.
• I understand that there are some   circumstances   in which this information may  be  redisclosed to other parties (see page  2 for details).
Autorização   de  cobrança  no  cartão de crédito
Eu,  Ana  Cristina Reif de Paula                                                       ,
autorizo a American   Airlines a efetuar a cobrança no valor de R$ 50000      em  meu
cartão de crédito, conforme dados  abaixo:
Número       448556     - XXXXXX   - 3091
Nome   grafado  no cartão   Ana Cristina Reif de Paula
validade  08     / 2022
Forma   de Pagamento*:
Código  localizador da reserva  -
A reserva é para emissão  de bilhetes para os seguintes passageiros:
Arthur Pesquisa
Claudio  Haddad
Rafael  Barbastefano
E-mail  para contato: arthur.pesquisa@gmail.com
Campos    a serem  preenchidos  pela  American   Airlines:
Bilhete emitido  no dia 08   / 08 / 2019
Expiration Date (Month/Year): 4/2020
CVS  Code  (3 digit # on signature line on back of credit card): 545
Cardholder  Name  (copy exactly): Timothy Perry
Authorized Signature (sign):
Print the Signature Name:  Timothy  Perry
Amount  Authorized: US  $ 12000
8520  W  Redwing   Dr  Franklin WI 53132
In Payment  of:
SOLICITAÇÃO       DO  CREDENCIAMENTO          75  – BARES    E RESTAURANTES
CIDADE                                             CEP                    TELEFONE
de redução de base de cálculo para bares, restaurantes e estabelecimentos similares
que trata o Dec. 44.650/2017, Anexo 5, Art. 1º.
Declaramos  que não usufruímos de nenhum  outro benefício e que estamos em
conformidade  com o que preceitua a legislação acima citada.
8TABLE Drug name     Use                        Half-       Dosing   (all per os)                               Contra-           Cost         Comments
life                                                            indications       (US$)*
cycline (doxy)         efficacy of treatment    Doxy: 16    7 days.                    7 days.                  • Pregnancy.                     schizonticide such as
in areas with quinine                                                                                                     quinine.
resistance and/or                    Doxy:  100 mg/kg           Doxy: 2 mg/kg
reduce  likelihood of                2 times per day  for       twice per day
quinine-associated                   7 days.                    for 7 days.
side-effects by
reducing  duration  of               Prophylaxis: 100  mg       Prophylaxis: 2 mg/kg
Clindamycin          • For patients unable      3           300  mg  4 times per       20 to 40 mg/kg/day       • Severe  hepatic              • Is not as effective as
to take tetracycline.                day for 5 days.            divided in 3 daily         or renal                       tetracycline, especially
• In combination   with                                           doses for 5 days.          impairment.                    among   non-immune
quinine, can increase                                                                    • History of                     patients.
efficacy of treatment                                                                      gastrointestinal             • Used only  in combination
in areas with quinine                                                                      disease,                       with a rapidly acting
reduce  likelihood of                                                                      colitis.                       quinine.
quinine-associated
reducing  duration  of
quinine  treatment.
Trade name:            infections.                                                     between  11  and 40 kg                                    children.
exists
11–20  kg: 1/ 4 adult dose                              • Pediatric formulation in
21–30  kg: 1/ 2 adult dose                                development.
drug  resistant                      day followed  by           day followed  by                                          not fully established,
P. falciparum                        2 mg/kg   daily for        2 mg/kg  daily for                                        especially for use in first
infections.                          total of 5 to 7 days.      total of 5 to 7 days.                                     trimester (available data
compounds                                                                                                                                        suggest relative safety for
Artemisinin                                2–7         20 mg/kg   on the first    20 mg/kg  on  the first                    1.50–3.40      second  or third trimester).
day followed  by 10        day followed  by                                        • Other artemisinin
Artemether                                 4–11        4 mg/kg   on the first     4 mg/kg  on the first                      3.60–4.80
day followed  by           day followed  by
2 mg/kg   daily for        2 mg/kg  daily for
total of 5 to 7 days.      total of 5 to 7 days.
infections for gameto-
Description
ESS  is an 8-item self report questionnaire used  to assess subjective sleepiness (score range:
0-24; normal  <10).
ISI is a 7-item rating used to assess the patient’s perception of insomnia.
PSQI  is a 24-item self report measure of sleep quality (poor sleep: global score >5).
BDI  (or BDI-II) is a 21-item self report inventory used to measure depression  (minimal  or no
depression: BDI  <10;  moderate  to severe: BDI  >18).
minimum    anxiety: T-score <50; significant anxiety: T score >70).
FSS  is a 9-item patient rating of daytime fatigue.
DMBA   ID number:                                     Authorization number(s)  (if applicable):
Provider contact:                                             Contact’s daytime  phone:
Drug Name   (Brand Name)                     Biomarker(s)                     Indication(s)
121      Protriptyline (Vivactil®)                    CYP2D6                           Depression
122      Risperidone                                  CYP2D6                           Schizophrenia, bipolar mania,
124      Trimipramine (Surmontil®)                    CYP2D6;   CYP2C19                Depression
Pulmonary
126      Azathioprine (Imuran®)                       TPMT                             Rheumatoid  arthritis, organ
transplant
127      Flurbiprofen (Ansaid®)                       CYP2C9                           Arthritis
128      Pegloticase (Krystexxa®)                     G6PD                             Uric acid management,  gout
Toxicology
129      Sodium nitrite                               G6PD                             Cyanide poisoning
Transplantation
130      Mycophenolic  acid (Myfortic®)               HPRT1                            Kidney transplant
131      Tacrolimus                                   CYP3A5                           Organ  transplant
Urology
(cid:18)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:19)(cid:16)(cid:13)(cid:24)(cid:2)(cid:3)(cid:7)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:10)(cid:13)(cid:17)(cid:3)
26/05/2015                                                                                                                                                       135/70                                                          96°F                                            70
9:30am                                       83.3kg                                                                                                                                                                                                   30
CONCRETE                r            ANCHOR   BOLT
MASONRY
REINFORCED
BOND  BEAM
JOIST HANGER:
0 . 0683486         0 . 0184629                                         +  0 . 0882686         0 . 018821
46  , 394     35,924                                                    46,394         35  , 924           43  , 200
Email   ajakurski@jgp.com.br                        TELEFONE:       ( +55 ) 98 99608-4062
MUNICÍPIO:       Assis Brasil
TURMA      RECIFE      (    )
Figure     14.   Uterine      Corpus       Cancer      Treatment         Patterns      (%),    by   Stage,     2013
70            69
50                                                                                                                                                Surgery + chemo
Percent                                                                                                                                                Surgery + RT
30                                                                                                         28
Chemo  and/or RT
16
10                                       6                                                                                   6
1        2
Early stage (I and II)                                            Late stage (III and IV)
I, Steve Doyle                                                   VISA     MASTERCARD
give permission for 21c Museum   Hotel to charge                 AMERICAN   EXPRESS       DISCOVER
ACCOUNT  NUMBER
EXPIRATION DATE
03  01 2020
Name   of individual in room:                                    EXACT ARRIVAL DATE
EXACT DEPARTURE DATE
03 06 2020
DATE OF BANQUET FUNCTION (Banquet/Meeting Rooms Only)
Data:  11/26/2020                      Nome   da pessoa  preenchendo   o formulário  (se diferente
Nascimento
Houve   algum  problema   significante durante a gravidez  ou o nascimento   da sua criança?
Não  foram encontrados problemas significativos
Não
Durante  a internação  hospitalar após o nascimento   da sua criança, seu bebê  teve algum  problema
médico?   Ocorreu um problema, que foi resolvido posteriormente.
Chairman   of the Board of Health                         May 6, 2020
Credit Card Type               AmEx                  VISA                 MasterCard                   Discover
Credit Card  Number                                                  Expiration Date
Check  here if billing address is same as Ship to address
City:                           State:                  Zip Code:
Qty                   Kit Part Number                         +                        Service
Service
LTE910PS  Premium   Kit v1.00  TBUVS100      $825.00      *100  Minutes per Month – No 911 Service
*$15.00   per month  after 1st year promotion. Cancel at any time.
Qty                  Kit Part  Number                      + 911            911  Only  Calling Service
Service
LTE910PS   Standard  Kit v1.00  TBUVS911      $575.00             * 911 Calling Service Only
*$25.00  per month  after 1st year promotion. Cancel  at any time.
Print Name:                                                         Title:
Signature:                                                          Date:
COMPLICAÇÕES:
1. AVC  (derrame)
2. Lesões vasculares  locais
3. Hematomas
4.Lesão  vascular com  necessidade   de correção  por cirurgia local e necessidade de  eventual transfusão
5. Formação   de pseudo-aneurisma
9. Alteração renal, podendo   desenvolver   insuficiência. Maior risco em diabéticos, desidratados,  idosos, usando
antibióticos e anti-inflamatórios
10. Dor precordial
Assinatura    do(a)  médico(a)
CRM:         41326                                    UF:
Nome:        Ana Cristina Reif de Paula
Av. Purdue s/n - Campus UFV
Viçosa - MG                                 Formulário            de     Reembolso               Odontológico
CEP  36570-900
Requerente    (Nome   Completo    do Titular ou Pensionista)                                                                                                                  Matrícula
Andre   Debars                                                                                    03826214
Nome   Completo    do Paciente                                                                                                                                                Matrícula
Tratamento        executado
04/03/2011            Preenchimentos, canais radiculares e extrações.                                                               Implantologia   extrações   3000            3000
TABLE      4
Typical    Fire  Ratings    of  Cavity   Walls
walls filed  solid af combustiole   framing   membors
mamtiars                                                                                                4
ng  combustible               frames
9 in  (280  mmm)  solid brick and  concrete   binck,  1 in (38 mm)   air  space,
4
ENDEREÇO:  R. Frei Caneca, 1420 - Consolação, São Paulo, SP, 01307-002
TELEFONE: (92) 3671-6756             E-MAIL: sen.rogeriocarvalho@senado.leg.br @
CARTÃO: Master Card                     Nº: 5523170000276020
VALOR: R$ 70000          (                                                  )
NUMERO  DE PARCELAS:        02
I                                                       authorize The  Consulate General  of Bolivia in Los
Full name
Visa Application           Legalization             Other
SIGNATURE                                                                       DATE
Account   Type:            VISA                MasterCard                  Discovery               American    Express
Card  Number:
CVV2   (last three digits in the signature area for VISA/MC or Discovery; four digits on front the card for AMEX):
Matrícula  SIAPE                   CPF                                 Situação funcional
Ativo Permanente     Cedido          Regime CLT
Ativo Permanente     Cedido          Regime CLT
-                                  077.248.648-45                                Pensionista          Requisitado
Aposentado           Nomeado  p/ cargo comissionado
> Contrato  completo do  plano de saúde, onde  o requerente seja o titular;
> Comprovação    de vínculo com o dependente  (certidão de nascimento,  certidão de casamento  ou certidão de união
> Carteiras do Plano de Saúde.
Anualmente:
To   the  parent(s)/guardian(s)          of:  Bruce                                          School:                                        Date:    08/12/2020
Content Area                            California Standards Tests (Performance Level)
English Language  Arts       Reasonable    fluency
Mathematics                  Reasonable   fluency
Advanced                                                             English Language  Mainstream   ***
Early Advanced                 Reasonable   fluency***                  or an Alternative Program
Beginning                            fluency***                          or an Alternative Program
Claudio    Ferreira   de  Albuquerque                   797.327.552-53                           (   )   17-  3236-2220
R.  Manoel   Joaquim    Garcia,   1050  - Centro
CIDADE                      CEP                         Nº DA APÓLICE             SEGURADORA
DATA DO SINISTRO   HORA DO OCORRIDO  HOUVE BOLETIM DE OCORRÊNCIA?     E-MAIL
08/05/2019        08/05/2019                SIM           NÃO         albuquerque1955@uol.com.br
ANA  PAULA   SILVA  DOS  SANTOS                        SIM                 NÃO     (11) 4722-1149
RELAÇÃO  DE DOCUMENTOS    OBRIGATÓRIOS  ( OUTROS DOCUMENTOS    PODERÃO   SER SOLICITADOS  NO DECORRER   DO PROCESSO)
CNH  DO  CONDUTOR   D VEÍCULO (Legível)
BOLETIM  DE OCORRÊNCIAS   (SE HOUVER)
Street Address:  22425 Birchwood Loop Rd
City, State, Zip Code: Chugiak, AK, 99567, USA
Country: USA
Phone Number:     206-253-5832
a) independent  blind assessment  *
c) record linkage *
d) self report
2) Was  follow-up  long enough  for outcomes  to occur
a) yes (more than two  years) *
b) no
3) Adequacy   of follow up of cohorts
a) complete  follow up - all subjects accounted for *
description provided  of those lost) *
c) follow up rate loss more than 10%   and no description of those lost
1) Representativeness  of the exposed cohort
Table 3 Faculty participants’ self-perception and perceptions of workshop effectiveness
Variable                                                             Mean  (SD)      N
-Pre-Workshop:
-Post-Workshop:
The workshop   is helpful.                                         4.77 (0.51)     26
Procedure          U.S      Insurers  U.S.     Retail  India            Thailand         Singapore
Last Name:                                                         First Name:
IIT ID#:                                                           SEVIS ID#:
IIT Email:                                                         Phone  #:
This will apply for               (semester)               (year)
Advisor  Name   (Printed):                                                      Phone   Extension:
Network      Connection
BACnet  MSTP                                         Address          (Number can be 0-99)
Endereço:                                                                                 Nº:            Compl.
Bairro:                                              Cidade:                                             Estado:
Registro  de  título de especialista profissional  farmacêutico    (concurso   de título)
Registro  de  título de mestre  e doutor
Registro de habilitação para atuar como responsável técnico ou farmacêutico substituto em homeopatia por comprovação curricular na graduação
antineoplásicos e demais medicamentos na oncologia por comprovação de experiência
    Autorização    para prescrição   farmacêutica   conforme   Resolução    CFF   nº 586/2013
AIR SPACE
MINIMUM                               |
FIRE CLAY  FLUE  LINER
FEIN     LE Se       heer
eA            SA
OFFA      A  re  aes   FFA
AOOMINAL  1 IM. G25. enenp                                                        &
AIRS       ™—                                                         SoG,       REAR  cuean-our   gon
FOR  BAFFLE  CHAMBER:
1
FAONT  CLEAN-OUT   DOOR                A           VANE   AALRELEEPELPP    STEPPES
ARD  4GINT
1    [25
——   NOMINAL AIR SPAGE IN. mim
L  .        T        T       ¥        «    ihee*
“SOLIDLY        FILLED
POT                SE
Ihe MELE    AEE             EMEP   OEE    EERE    EEA OE EME     EN
EA     AL               AEE   AS  EW         A EEE  NE
REINFORGED                   : Ea   ee)                                                  es
Card Holder’s Name     Keith Fogarty
Card Holder’s Billing Address  12133 W  99th St, Lenexa, KS, 66215, USA
Exp  Date  03-03-2020            3-Digit Security Code 786
Authorized Signature                                      Date 03-03-2018
Student’s  Official Class:                    Name   of School:
Student    Signature:    (electronically typed or signed)
Jurisdiction   Timing                             Price reduction  level
Australia      Number   of years from first listing
(without loss of exclusivity):
• 10 years                          • 10%
• 15 years                          • 5%
• Entry of second brand             • 25%
• 2006–2007                         • Administrative price reduction of 12.5%
Belgium        Loss of exclusivity:
• Entry of first generic product    • 43.64%  or 51.52% depending  on  reimbursement
One-off  price reduction
• April 2012                        • 1.95% reduction for all products or on products of
the manufacturers’ choice with equivalent saving
price group existing for 6 years
France         Loss of exclusivity
Non-biologic  products:
• 18 months  after first generic   • 12.5%  (original); 7% (generic)
Biologic products:
• Entry of first biosimilar product • 20% (original product)
• 15%  (Market share: 60–100%)
• 18–24 months  after biosimilar   • 10%  (Market share: 40–60%)
• 5%  (Market share: 0–40%)
• Upon  LoE                        • 35%
• 6 months  after LoE              • 59–81%
• 18 months  after LoE             • 69–90%
Name:   Dean Scharmen
Street Address:  42 W 75th St New York, NY 10023
Mailing  Address:  same as above
Phone#:  (231)853-2261                     Case  Assistance?  Y  or N
Date of Birth: 08/04/1971          Race:  White
Sex:  Male  or Female              Monthly  Income:  $50000
Relationship:  Friend              Phone#:   (231)946-0900
Reason  for Referral: None
*Product  Flavor:  -
Agency  Employee   Signature:
E-mail  professor:
arthur.pesquisa@gmail.com
Contato  telefônico  professor:
*Título  do projeto:
WMR
*Nível  do  projeto (IC,  PM,  Mestrado,   etc.):
*Nome    (s) do (s) aluno  (s) participante  (s):
*Telefone   aluno:
011 55 98 98112-7250
barbastefano@gmail.com
*Data  de início:
02/08/2017
*Data  de termino:
08/08/2020
Materiais  e equipamentos     utilizados:
Assinatura   do Professor   Responsável:
Assinatura   do Técnico   Responsável:
*Professor  responsável:
E-mail  professor:
arthur.pesquisa@gmail.com
*Título  do projeto:
*Nome    (s) do (s) aluno  (s) participante  (s):
*Telefone   aluno:
011 55 98 98112-7250
E-mail  contato  aluno:
*Data  de início:
*Data  de termino:
*Preenchimento      Obrigatório
Assinatura   do Professor   Responsável:
Name   on Card:          Scott Pinheiro
Billing Address:         571 Spring St Newport RI 02840 USA
Credit Card Type:             Visa         Mastercard       Discover        AmEx
Credit Card Number:      4843760100556341
Expiration Date:         03    / 2022          CVC/Security  Code:   489
Signature:
Print Name:                Scott Pinheiro
Date:                      03-03-2020
Please  have my  paycheck   automatically   deposited  into the following  account:
Or
Savings/MIA/Money   market  account  number
You  can find your account and routing numbers  when  you sign in to chase.com:
• Select the “Account & routing number  PDF” from the “Things you can do” menu.
and my  bank  to automatically deposit my paycheck  into my account  listed above (this includes my authorization to
correct entries made  in error). This authorization will remain in effect until I give written notice to cancel it.
ressarcimento  do  valor pago  do titular e/ou dos dependentes,   conforme   Art. 230 da Lei  8.112 e suas alterações, Decreto
4.978  de 03/02/2004,  Artigos  26, 27, 28 e 29 da  Portaria Normativa   nº 5 de 11/10/2010/SRH/MPOG.
Valor   do plano  (Valores correspondente  ao titular)                                                    R$   50,000
(somente (s) dependente(s) legal(is)              (Filho, cônjuge, etc.) Nascimento
Renata    Viviane    Villa Nova                                    irmã                13/10/1999 / /    R$ 25,000
/    /        R$
/    /        R$
/    /        R$
VALOR      TOTAL     A SER   PAGO    (valor do titular + dependente(s))   R$ 25,000
de atualização   do cadastro.
5. Assinatura  do requerente
Data:      09/08/2020 / /
Assinatura
Nome  Titular:                                                                                 CPF  Titular:
Procedimento Realizado pelo próprio titular                                 Procedimento Realizado por dependente:
E-mail                                                                    Fone
Assinale uma das opções para o depósito, indicando para quem o reembolso deve ser realizado e preencha os dados bancários na opção escolhida:
Dados Bancários do Titular: Banco         Agência:           C/C                      CPF Titular da Conta
Dados Bancários do Dependente: Banco            Agência:           C/C                 CPF Titular da Conta
Nome  completo:       Arthur  Pesquisa
Endereço:         R. Gen. Canabarro, 485
Maracana
CEP:    20271-204             Cidade:  Rio de Janeiro       UF:  RJ    País: Brasil
Fone:    +55 98988578047             E-mail:           arthur.pesquisa@gmail.com
Curso de Origem:          Estruturas de dados - 101
Eu,                                                                                  ,
requeiro minha inscrição no processo seletivo para preenchimento de vagas remanescentes do Curso
remanescentes  do Curso de Medicina  da UniCerrado.
Student       Name:
LAST                                            FIRST                                                        MIDDLE
Student       Address:
Grade     in  2019-20:                                                 Student      ID  or  Date    of  Birth:
Name:   Adriana     Forero
First                          Middle                       Last
Please note: This form is not to be used for New Jersey Community  College Courses.
Course Name   and Number                                     College/University
7th                      3rd                               4                            A
Semester                  Year                               Credits Earned            Grade
Syllabus
Departmental      Evaluation
Leyla     Formoso                                          Electronics
Please check one:
This course is equivalent to the following Rutgers-NB course:
given the transfer equivalent code 01:        :MAJ. (enter your department  code)
Yes              This course should count as a general elective in my department, and should be given the
transfer equivalent code 01: 110    :EC. (enter your department code)
This course should be given elective credit only. It should not count as a course for my
department,  and  will be given the transfer equivalent course code TR:T01:EC.
This course is not transferable.
Approval Signature                                           Date
DEAN’S  OFFICE USE  ONLY                                                                                 Rev 12/15
Cardiomyopa      Anthracyclines               Echocardiograph    ACE-I/ARB
thy                                           y
(with   systolic                              Myocardial  strain
diastolic        Alkylating agents                               Possible role for statins
MUGA/RNA           ranolazine
Antimetabolites
Biomarkers:        Serial LVEF/biomarker
Proteasome  inhibitors       troponin,    BNP,  monitoring
newer
chemotherapy,       then
Possible  role for
genetics           reinstitute with  LVEF
Ischemia         Antimetabolites              ECG                Nitrates  for  coronary
(vasospasm)                                     spasms
VSP-  inhibitor TKIs  (Mab                      Aspirin  for thrombosis
thrombosis                   Coronary           Limited  data  for other
Antimicrotubule      agents  angiography        anti-anginal agents
(arterial thrombosis)        Cardiac MRI
venous                       CT  angiography    heparin
inhibitors – venous          for      ischemia
(tamoxifen)    –    arterial/
ACE-I/ARB
VEGF   trap                  Ambulatory         Other              anti-
blood    pressure
monitoring         hypertensive   regimens
as third-line agents
pressure checks
Ambulatory         LVEF)
Monoclonal   antibodies      blood    pressure
Discontinue
(differentiation syndrome)
Nome:  elsa peres da silva
Situação Funcional:           Ativo         Aposentado         Pensionista
Lotação: Departamento   de Saúde                                                 (Centro/Departamento)
Nome: LEILA  REGINA    FREIRE   DA SILVA                     CPF: 180.419.298-85
Grau de parentesco: irmã                                     Data de Nascimento:    4/7/1973 / /
Nome: Rafaela  Schneider                                     CPF: 479.532.348-82
Grau de parentesco: prima                                    Data de Nascimento:  30/6/2001 / /
Grau de parentesco:                                          Data de Nascimento:       /     /
2. Só terá direito ao benefício o Servidor Titular e seus dependentes do mesmo plano assistencial;
3. Excetua-se  do item 2, os casos em  que  a operadora  do plano não  permita a inscrição de dependentes,
exclusão dos beneficiários) e nos dados cadastrais que impliquem  alteração/perda   do  benefício.
quitação)  do plano  privado  de assistência  à saúde,  caso  o desconto  não  seja feito em  folha.
Belo Horizonte-MG                , 01    de abril           de  2020
Cônjuge/companheiro(a)        de      união     estável;      - Se cônjuge: Certidão  de Casamento.
companheiro(a)        na       união       homoafetiva,       -  Se  companheiro(a):  Certidão  Pública  de  União
obedecidos         os        mesmos   critérios adotados      Estável.
para o reconhecimento   da união estável.
- CPF
A pessoa   separada  judicialmente ou  divorciada, com        separação   ou divórcio.
percepção   de  pensão   alimentícia (a  existência de        -  Cópia   da  determinação    judicial referente ao
assistência à saúde  deste).                                  - CPF
Os  filhos e enteados,  solteiros, até 21 (vinte e um)        - Certidão de Nascimento   ou RG.
economicamente     do  servidor  e  estudantes   de           declarante.
curso   regular  reconhecido   pelo  Ministério  da           - Comprovante    de  matrícula atualizado,  de curso
Educação.                                                     regular, reconhecido  pelo MEC.
- CPF
O  menor  sob  guarda  ou  tutela concedida  por decisão      - Certidão de Nascimento.
judicial.                                                     - Termo  de Guarda  ou Tutela.
- CPF
cItY                                                      state              ZIP                            emaIl aDDRess
ReFeRReD   BY?   ❍   mailer    ❍  Poster/Flier at site ❍  Internet    ❍  Newspaper  ad     ❍   Doctor    ❍   Friend   ❍   other:
8 hours  fasting  (water  and  medications    only)                 Tests  for anemia   and  other  conditions.                         Fasting  preferred.        1.0 ml minimum/tiger/spin…code 801796
• Diabetes:   Glucose,  Fructosamine                                                                                                          3 ml minimum—needs own tube/lavender/refrigerate asap…code 2317
• Kidney:   BUN,    Creatinine                                �     HDL     and   Total     Cholesterol        $25
• Gout:   Uric Acid                                                 A  more  advanced    and  sensitive  indicator   of                         estimate 2 tests per tube/tiger/spin/staple pouch…mail to Spectrum
• Electrolytes:  Sodium,    Chloride                                cardiovascular    risk.      1.0 ml minimum/tiger/spin…code 2062
2.5 ml minimum/tiger/spin within 45 min…code 803339                                                                                 Allergy        Testing
�                                                                          Allergy results mailed in approximately 2–3  weeks.
Recommended        for men   40  and  older.                        Kit must   be  returned   in provided   envelope   to               46  items  (incl: milk,  eggs,  meats,  grains).
A  digital rectal exam    conducted    by a physician               Healthwaves.
�     C-Reactive       Protein-High        Sensitivity      $58           This  test is used  for diabetic  patients  to  monitor       �
8 hours   fasting  preferred  (water  only).  Helps                 glucose  control   over the  last few  months.                      Comprehensive            Food     Panel    $119
predict  heart  attack  risk.                                           1.0 ml minimum—needs own tube/lavender/refrigerate asap…code 9230 90 items—all   of basic  panel  plus  many   more.
�     Homocysteine           $90                                                           COMBO    PRICES…
�     TSH    Thyroid       $38      1.0 ml minimum/tiger/spin…code 8055   Helps   determine   risk  of having  heart  disease           �     Basic    Food     and   Southwest         Regional
�     T3,   T4   and   T7   Thyroid      $28     1.0 ml minimum/tiger/
�     Both    Panels     Recommended            $58  2.0 ml minimum/                                                                          Regional      Inhalant      Panels     $159
tiger/spin                                             lavender tube…code 3105
Dados  da amostra
Nome:   Miguel Pryor
Endereço:  R. da Ajuda,
E-mail: michael.pryor@bunge.com
RG:  27.777.891.8                           CPF: 046171124-99
This IMMEDIATE    CEASE  AND  DESIST  ORDER   is issued to:
Name  of Establishment  -Victory Baptist Church
Table   5    Return   to sport
stage    description            objective
1        Symptom-limited        Reintroduction  of normal activities of daily living.
activity               Symptoms   should  not worsen  with activity.
2        Light aerobic          Walking, stationary biking, controlled activities that
exercise               exercise avoiding risk of head impact.
4        Non-contact            Sport-specific, non-contact training drills that involve
training drills        increased coordination  and thinking. Progressive
introduction of resistance training.
5        Full contact practice  Return to normal  training activities. Assess
psychological readiness.
6        Return  to sport
Please  return this form as soon  as possible
X      Yes,  I accept the support  described  above  for my child.
No,  at this time I wish to decline the services described above.
Autorizo a gravação de imagens em fotografia e/ou vídeo (riscar o que não se aplica):
clusivo deste centro de genética:                                                  ☐ SIM    ☐  NÃO
Data: 12 / 12 / 2018      Assinatura do consultando:
TYPE        Visa           EXPIRATION DATE  04-03-2025
NAME  ON  CREDIT CARD:  Adelaide Feest
AUTHORIZED   SIGNATURE:
PHONE:  641-903-7213             TODAY’S DATE:  04-03-2020
ADDRESS:       15 Short Cir
CHARGES   COVERED   BY THIS CARD         Yes
All charges
Incidentals Only

Owner   Name   (Please  print.)                                                                                                     Phone   (          )
Owner   Signature                                                                                                          Date
Owner   Name   (Please  print.)                                                                                                     Phone   (          )
JPMorgan    Chase
Account Number 01 2310  670  0 000           Card Number
Bank Routing #    101000048                  Card Code
Bank City/State   NY                         Exp. Date
T     i     KK                                     T         0
VIX                                                               K         Interval between   strike prices – half the
100                                                          i      difference between   the  strike on either side of K i:
K   =   K  i +
F    Forward   index  level derived from  index  option  prices                     i              2
K  0 First strike below the  forward  index  level, F
R   Q  (K  i )  The midpoint   of the bid-ask  spread  for each
Contact Person  (if different from donor):    Otis  Bruen
City:    Louisville                          State:   KY            Zip: 40204
Phone:  1-254-720-0465    x615                     E-Mail: otis.bruen@gmail.com
(N=2,276*)
Cancer Causing  Substancein  the
Environment(n=40)
Chronic Inflammation  (n=217)
Hormones   (n=255)
Immunosuppression    (n=23)
Infectious Agents (n=1175)                        Number  of articles excluded based on title and abstract
Radiation (n=204)                                    OB=594;   RA=202;  UV=84;   TO=519)
childhood experiences (n=475)
Did not measure ACEs   (n=214)
No human   subjects (n=218)
Alcohol (n=188)
Hormones   (n=10)
Infectious Agents (n=48)
Obesity  (n=98)
(N=176*:  AL=129;  CI=22;  HO=10;   IA=36; OB=55;   RA=2;  TO=48)
Adult cancer risk factor is not an outcome (n=66)
Not empirical/original/quantitative research (n=9)
Articles included in the review
(N=155*)                               Not a USA  study (n=79)
Published before 2005 (n=57)
Alcohol  (n=59)
Infectious Agents (n=12)
Obesity (n=43)
Mail Code OH4-7302
P.O. Box 24696
Overnight mail:        Chase
Attn: Third Party Authorization Research
710 South Ash Street, Suite 200
Glendale, CO 80246-1989
Fax:                   1-614-422-7575  (Free of charge from any Chase branch)
Herein after referred to as Tenant.
Matrícula  SIAPE:        -              e/ou CPF:    917.405.338-87              Data  de Nascimento:      02/04/1998 / /
Situação:     Ativo (  )    Aposentado    (  )    Beneficiário  de Pensão   (   )
Telefone(s):    (14)3422-4433           Celular: (14) 3311-7322       E-mail:  roberto@ymail.com
(   ) Incluir    Dependentes                          (   ) Excluir     Dependentes                            (   ) Mudança         para    outro    plano
Dados        do(s)      dependente(s)
Data   de                                    Grau  de     Condição   de
Nome                                                                             Sexo             Parentesco     Dependente
Lucas      Campos                                              / 17/7/1999 /      (    )Feminino         Cód.:           Cód.: 3
(    )Masculino
(    )Masculino
/     /            (    )Feminino         Cód.:           Cód.:
(    )Masculino
(    )Masculino
/     /            (    )Feminino         Cód.:           Cód.:
(    )Masculino
DADOS         DO     BENEfICIáRIO
2  - Matrícula                                       Cód.Dep.         3 - Nome    do  Beneficiário
027284011                                                          juan      zeballos
DADOS         DO     SOLICITANTE
PROCEDIMENTOS                     SOLICITADOS              (ver    tabela    no   verso)
8 - Código do  Procedimento                     9 - Descrição                                                                                                                                 10 - Dente/Região    11- Face
5 -
8 -
9 -
10 -
12 -
13-
14-
15-
Nenhum
IDENTIFICAÇÃO DO PACIENTE
NOME: Thomas Leitz
NOME  DA MÃE DO PACIENTE: Maria Andre
DETALHAR  O NOME  DO EXAME, OU DO MEDICAMENTO  OU DO TRATAMENTO  DE SAÚDE  QUE
DETALHAR  O MOTIVO DA DESISTÊNCIA OU RECUSA:  NA
Identification:                                                       Prevention:
Use  photos  and  descriptions for preliminary identification        • Do not clean brickwork  with unbuffered  hydrochloric (muri-
When   uncertain  of correct identification of efflorescence or      • Use cleaning  agent or procedure  recommended     by  brick
verify prior to cleaning                                             • Store brick off ground and cover  with non-staining water-
proof material
Cannabis (maconha)           Cocaína       Anfetaminas       Opióides
2- Nome   do paciente: Geraldo Coen
Date:
Last Position Held:
Dates of Employment:      Start (MM/YY):                End (MM/YY):                      Salaried/Exempt       Hourly/Non‐Exempt
Salary:                   Start:               End:                                                 Average  Hours Per Week:
21  CFR  314.126;  21 CFR   514.117
12 Target animals are the specific animals (e.g., species, class, etc.) for which the drug is intended for use. This draft
guidance  pertains only to risk information relevant to target animal safety. The  Agency  conducts  a separate review
13 See the 2005 guidance  for industry entitled Premarketing  Risk Assessment   for a more detailed discussion of
14 See, e.g., the 2011 guidance for industry entitled Warnings  and Precautions,  Contraindications,  and  Boxed
15 21 CFR  201.57(c)(7)
exposure  to a drug, whether or not considered  drug-related (see 21 CFR   312.32(a)). Adverse   reactions are a subset
Minnesota   Comprehensive    Assessments    (MCA)  and             ACCESS  and  Alternate  ACCESS  for English Learners
Minnesota   Test of Academic   Skills (MTAS)
• Based on  the WIDA  English Language Development
•  Based on the Minnesota  Academic   Standards; given               Standards.
mathematics;  given annually in grades 5, 8, and high school      writing, listening, and speaking.
for science.                                                    • Majority of English learners take ACCESS for ELLs.
•  Majority of students take the MCA.                              • Alternate ACCESS  for ELLs is an option for English learners
Date                       (This form is only applicable for the 20     to 20     school year.)
Student’s Legal First Name                                           Student’s Legal Middle  Initial
Student’s Legal Last Name                                            Student’s Date  of Birth
MCA/MTAS   Reading                      MCA/MTAS    Science
Inter-                                                                    Health care
stakeholders
along the supply chain                                                                                                                              
production, including public sources of                                                                                                   
(c.4) Communicating  pricing and
when  appropriate
border  collaboration
(d.1) Sharing information on medicine
                                                              
prices and technical assessments
(d.2) Harmonizing regulatory requirements
medicines in shortage
(d.4) Pooling subnational, national and
regional resources for joint negotiation                                                                                                             
and procurement
I hereby authorize Ambassador  Chicago to charge:
□ American   Express     □ Visa      □ Master  Card      □ Discover Card      □ Diners  Club
371289649801008                                         03  01  2025                         4473
Credit Card Number                                        Expiration Date                     Security Code
Phone:   (706)  850-2588                       City: Savannah                ST:  GA          ZIP:  31419
Cardholder's Signature:
Room  &  Tax Only                 □ YES
Incidentals Only                  □ YES                Guarantee Rooms  Only                □ YES
3.                                                        4.
5.                                                        6.
AMBASSADOR
Name  on credit card (please print): Fidela Doyle
□ American   Express     □ Visa      □ Master  Card      □ Discover Card      □ Diners  Club
371289649801008                                         03  01  2025                         4473
Name:  Fidela  Doyle                                      Address: 12300   Apache    Ave  #107
Phone:   (706)  850-2588                       City: Savannah                ST:  GA          ZIP:  31419
For the following  charge(s):
All Charges                       □ YES                Room  &  Tax Only-                   □ YES
Incidentals Guaranteed
Room  &  Tax Only                 □ YES
1.  Seth   Dicki                                          2.
3.                                                        4.
*Preenchimento *Preenchimento pelo Órgão de Origem
DADOS    DO  SOLICITANTE
Nº DO CARTÃO
ENDEREÇO:                   R. Antonio de Albuquerque, 330 - 12nd floor - Savassi, Belo Horizonte, MG, 30112-010, Brazil
CIDADE:                     Belo   Horizonte                         ESTADO:
AFASTAMENTO:
VÍNCULO    / REGIME
AFASTAMENTO       /                                                  DO
( (  ) ) Sim Sim - Data:     /          /                                            Pág.:
, , ,      de de de                             de de de
USO  EXCLUSIVO     DO  ÓRGÃO     DE ORIGEM
Matrícula Matrícula do do Responsável: Responsável:   -
Assinatura Assinatura do do Responsável: Responsável:
Carimbo   do Responsável:
Michael    Clarke                                              Check  here if declaring exemption for
Patricia  White
Signature                                                    Minor child's name
2424   Spruce    St                                          25/05/1993
Address                                                      Date of Birth
Billings  MT  59101                                          Baton   Rouge    Magnet    High  School
Telephone
Required   Criteria   (California Education               Alvord   Unified  School  District Reclassification  Criteria
Code   Section 313[f])
English Language  Proficiency Assessment       A  score of 4 Overall on the ELPAC Summative.
Teacher Evaluation                             A  grade of 3/C- or higher in English Language Arts for most recent completed semester,
assessment  criteria but did not meet the ELA grade criteria.
Parental Opinion and Consultation              Parent Notice and Participation
Comparison  of Performance  in Basic Skills    A  minimum   basic skills score* on an English Language Arts assessment:
01. Cliente/Beneficiário: Andre Jakurski
02. Cód. Cartão: 3695
03. Origem:                                   04. Posto: 3ª            05. Quarto:
Pós Operatório Fratura de Fêmur
Pós Operatório Fratura de Quadril
Totalmente Acamado
QUADRO    CLÍNICO   PACIENTE
Enfermeiro  Responsável
Assinatura e Carimbo
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assinatura e Carimbo
Data de solicitação: 10/29/2020 / /
13. Análise do Coordenador  SOS  Unimed:                Autorizado
14. Assinatura Coordenador  SOS:
DESCRIPTOR                                                                          ICD-9 CODES
PRIMARY   MALIGNANT  NEOPLASMS,   NOT LYMPHATIC   OR         140.XX-172.XX, 174.XX-195.XX
SECONDARY    MALIGNANT  NEOPLASMS    (I.E. METASTATIC)       196.XX-198.XX
MALIGNANT   NEOPLASMS,   UNKNOWN   SITE                      199.00
LEUKEMIAS   AND LYMPHOMAS                                    200.XX-208.XX
NEUROENDOCRINE     TUMORS                                    209.0X-209.3X
CARCINOMA   IN SITU                                          230.XX-234.XX
CANCER                                                                                      ICD-9  CODES
I. LUNG                                                           162.XX
II. PANCREATIC   (EXCLUDED)                                       157.XX
IV. NON-HODGKIN’S    LYMPHOMA    (EXCLUDED)                       200.XX, 202.0X-202.2X, 202.7X-202.8X
VI. BREAST                                                        174.XX, 233.0
Name:
Address:
City:                                       State:               Zip Code:
Phone  Number:
for Older Adults with Frailty
☐    CE145:  Geriatric Exercise Prescription: Moving       November   5          2          $20
cancer survivors – version 2.
Nome  do Segurado                                              CPF/MF
Endereço do Hospital/Clínica (Rua, Cidade e Estado)
Tipo de doença           Tempo  de evolução da doença              Em  caso de acidente informar
Crônica     Aguda        Anos       Meses      Dias      Horas
Tipo de Tratamento           Internação              Data e nome  da cirurgia, se for o caso
Clínico       Obstétrico      Eletiva
Nome  do Médico  Assistente  CRM                     Data internação     Data alta        Total de Dias de
Internação
Especialidade                DDD    Telefone         Horário Internação Horário  da alta
Dias
Local:                                         Data:                Assinatura  do Segurado
Central de Sinistro de Seguros de Pessoas                            SAC:  0800  721 1144
Capitais e Regiões Metropolitanas: 4004  2794            Reclamações,  Cancelamentos   e Informações Gerais.
Demais  Localidades: 0800  701 2794                      Atendimento  24 horas, 7 dias por semana.
Atendimento  de 2ª a 6ª feira, das 8h00 às 18h00, exceto feriados.
Mod.: 5310-968E   Versão: 03/2019
(  ) Licença   para:  (  ) tratamento    de Saúde     (   ) Gestante     (  )Por  motivo   de  doença   em   pessoa  da  família
(  ) Prorrogação    de  licença
(  ) Reconsideração      de licença
Nome     do  Servidor:             Ana     Cristina     Reif   de   Paula                                                          (Obrigatório/Legível)
RG:   55.930.302-6                                               Órgão:                 UF:   RJ        Data  de  Expedição:     04/02/2010 / /
Data   Nascimento:     01/03/1996 /      /                                                                                        Sexo:   (  ) M  (  ) F
Médico    Assistente: Rafael    Barbastefano
Local:  Angra    dos   Reis
(CRM    e Carimbo    – obrigatórios)
04/03/12
Data:              /        /
Autorizo a divulgação das informações médicas e seu diagnóstico codificado (CID) para os devidos fins, conforme Resolução CFM n°. 1658/2002.
Assinatura   do Paciente  ou  Responsável
1.              Não  aceitamos  cópias de atestados/relatórios médicos, que devem ser assinados e carimbados;
4.              Em  se tratando de prorrogação, o prazo é de 10 (dez) dias antes do vencimento da licença anterior;
Anexar  cópias dos exames  realizados.
    Xérox  do Relatório de Procedimentos da Sala de Cirurgia / Anestesista / Cirurgião
    Pasta “Rosa” (capa do prontuário, somente se 1° licença)
Licença  Gestante                     Relatório Médico  padrão GESPRE,   preenchido pelo médico  assistente
    Declaração  de internação hospitalar (original).
    Ultra-sonografia, caso não tenha ocorrido o parto e/ou que comprove qualquer alteração na gestação.
Licença  Acompanhante                 Relatório Médico  padrão GESPRE    preenchido pelo médico assistente
    Xérox  dos exames  que comprovam   o diagnóstico.
Xérox de documento   que comprove  o parentesco.
Dados  Pessoais do  Segurado/Participante
Segurado  Sinistrado                     Data do Sinistro     Apólice  Nº              Certificado
Dados Nome Pessoais Completo do (sem Beneficiário abreviações) Data de Nascimento   CPF/CNPJ/MF
Doc. Identificação - Tipo Nº Documento             Grau  de Parentesco com  o Segurado
Bairro                                    Cidade                                    UF      CEP
Brasil
Autorizo receber informações do Sinistro via SMS
Conjunta                        Conjunta
Nº da Conta                       Díg. CPF do Titular:                 CPF do Titular:
Empresa/Órgão  Público
I,                                                hereby  authorize  Ultimate Jumpers,   Inc. to
charge  the amount   of (US $) $                     to the account  indicated below:
Expiration Date:          /            CVV2   (Back three digits):
City:                               State:               ZIP Code:
Cardholder’s Signature:
Name   (please print) Lorraine Peluso                                         I.D. # 2538971
License plate # T784392C                 State CA             Year of Vehicle  2015      Color  Black
Make  Model  of Vehicle  GMC  Terrain SLE1
S.P.O.  -                 On-campus   residence (building/room)  -
Type:                Permit Number:                Expires:          Issued by: Michael Weaver
Registartion              248                       08/08/2023                Date: 10/05/2019
Student’s Name                                      Student ID Number
Apólice N°                                Estipulante / Sub Estipulante
2    Dados     do   segurado     principal    (preencher   somente   quando    o sinistro for de cônjuge)
Data nasc.                                          CPF                                                        Sexo
3    Dados     do   segurado     sinistrado
Ocupação                                            Data de admissão                                Renda  / Salário - R$
Último dia de trabalho
Descrição da ocorrência (narração clara e circustãnciada) e qual o membro ou orgão do corpo atingido:
Pessoa de contato                                                                                                (DDD)  Telefone
Data do evento                                        Hora                                                            Em serviço        Sim         Não
Tipo de Sinistro invalidez Permanente    Total ou Parcial por Acidente   - IPA
Possui seguro em outras seguradoras?         Não         Sim      Se positivo, especifi que
5     Dados    do   reclamante
Nome                                                                                         E-mail
Endereço
CEP                                                                               (DDD)  Telefone
Local e data                                                         Assintura do reclamante
Data do  acidente                                       Internou-se para tratamento em  virtude do acidente que o vitimou        Clínico         Cirúrgico
Data da internação
Encontrou  no segurado  outros defeitos físicos, moléstias ou doenças existentes antes da data do acidente?
Foram  esgotados todos recursos terapêuticos visando a recuperação do paciente? Justifique                   Data  da definição da(s) sequela(s)
Nome   do médico  responsável                                                                                 CRM
y              Chemotherapeutic         Methodologies    Prevention
Cardiotoxicit  Classes (Incidence)
y
INDEX    TO   COVERAGE        SUMMARY
I.    COVERAGE
1.   Chemotherapy,    Immunotherapy     and  Hormonal   Agents
2.   Off-label  Use  of Drugs  and Biological  in an Anti-Cancer   Chemotherapeutic    Regimen
4.   Examples    of Not Reasonable   and  Necessary
5.   Medicare   Approved   Clinical  Trials [Oxaliplatin (Eloxatin® ), Irinotecan (Camptosar®   ),
Cetuximab    (Erbitux® ) and Bevacizumab    (Avastin®  )]
6.   Examples    of chemotherapy   services include  but are not limited to:
a.   Oral  Anti-cancer  Drugs
f.   Osmotic   Blood  Brain  Barrier Disruption  (BBBD)
g.   Scalp  Hypothermia    during Chemotherapy
NAME:
TELEPHONE   NUMBER:  (     )
E-MAIL ADDRESS:                               @utmem.edu
1) Instituição responsável pela internação:
2) Médico  responsável  pela assistência:                                        CRMMG
4) Data da internação        /        /         Data alta           /          /
5) Diagnóstico da alta hospitalar e CID :
6) Sumário  da evolução  do paciente desde sua entrada até a alta:
7) Comorbidades   diagnosticadas:
8) Tratamentos  realizados:
9) Intercorrências durante o tratamento hospitalar :
Observações:
Assinatura:
1) Instituição responsável pela internação:
3) Nome  do  Paciente
Unidade  do paciente:                                            Nº IPSM
4) Data da internação        /        /         Data alta           /          /
5) Diagnóstico da alta hospitalar e CID :
Observações:
11) Medicamentos   prescritos na alta hospitalar (relacionar os fármacos e doses respectivas)
12) Outras recomendações:
Assinatura:
April 15, 2020
Via Electronic Correspondence
Maarten  Botterman, Board Chair
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
Los Angeles, CA  90094-2536
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
RE:    Proposed  Ethos Capital Takeover of .ORG Registry Agreement
Pesquisador     assistente:   (Nome   dos   demais   pesquisadores      envolvidos)
Arthur Pesquisa
98402-1128
Telefones    de Contato:   (   ) (98)        -
SIM ou  NÃO  e os esclarecimentos.
1 – Encontra-se atualmente em plena atividade física de trabalho? Em caso negativo, especifique no item 7.
2 – Sofre ou sofreu alguma moléstia nos últimos três anos, que o tenha obrigado a consultar médicos, hospitalizar-se,
submeter-se a intervenção cirúrgica ou afastar-se de suas atividades normais de trabalho? Em caso afirmativo, informe
no item 7 quando ocorreu o tratamento, qual o motivo e os nomes dos médicos e hospitais.
grau de redução.
4 – Pratica paraquedismo, voo  livre, competições de qualquer natureza a bordo de veículos motorizados, ou exerce
atividade profissional ou amadora  a bordo  de aeronaves   que não  sejam  de  linha regular? Em  caso afirmativo,
6 – Autoriza os médicos,  instituições médicas e outras companhias  de  seguro a prestarem  todas as informações
Banco:    Banco   do  Brasil       Agência:                           Conta   Corrente:   614.925-0
E-mail  de  contato:  michael.pryor@bunge.com
Se  dependente    ou  agregado,   preencher   dados   abaixo:
Nome    completo:    Miguel  Pryor
Doc.   Cód. Benef. prestador de serviço  realização  serviço   Risco  apresentado   reembolsado
TOTAL                                                                                R$
Matrícula SIAPE: válido                 Lotação: 2022
Ione Mauricio                                   filho                                   04/02/2017
We  recommend   that you print or save a copy of your completed Form G-1450  to review in the future and for your
Given Name  (First Name)               Middle Name  (if any)               Family Name (Last Name)
Credit Card  Information
Credit Card Number                       Credit Card Type:      Visa                Authorized Payment Amount
MasterCard          $            .00
(mm/yyyy)                                                       Discover
1 - DADOS    DO  REQUERENTE
NOME  COMPLETO                                                                                        CPF
Alberto    Minniti   Amoroso                                                       523.434.215-87
Av.  Pátria,   1351                                                  34690828
BAIRRO    TAXASLuiz                                CEP                       CIDADE                                UF
Vargas                                          99500-000                    Carazinho                         RS
54-  3329-9904                     amoroso@ebrasilenergia.com.br                                 SIM         NÃO
O REQUERENTE É O PORTADOR  DA PATOLOGIA?               SIM          NÃO
2 - DADOS    DO  PORTADOR      DA  PATOLOGIA     (caso  não  seja o requerente)
NOME  COMPLETO                                                                                        CPF
Elias   Barbosa      de  Alvarenga                                                                008.824.781-33
GRAU DE PARENTESCO
Aids (Síndrome da Imunodeficiência Adquirida)                   alienação mental
contaminação por radiação                                       doença de Paget em estados avançados (osteíte deformante)
doença de Parkinson                                             esclerose múltipla
espondiloartrose anquilosante                                   fibrose cística (mucoviscidose)
hanseníase                                                      nefropatia grave
paralisia irreversível e incapacitante                          tuberculose ativa
síndrome de Down                                                autismo
4 - DÉBITOS   EM   ABERTO
IPTU e                EXERCÍCIO:                            ÍNDICE   CADASTRAL:
LOGRADOURO   (Rua, Avenida, etc)                                                          Nº          COMPLEMENTO
LOTE                      QUADRA                   BAIRRO                                             MATRÍCULA  CRI
DECLARO   serem   verdadeiras as informações   prestadas  e autênticos os documentos   apresentados   conforme   Lei Federal nº4.729
de 14/06/1965.
DECLARO   estar ciente de que  as afirmações  acima  serão verificadas por Agente  Fiscal da PMC  e que a apresentação   de informações
DECLARO   estar ciente que  a falta de documentos   exigidos implicará no indeferimento   do pedido.
DECLARO   estar ciente que  o indeferimento  do  pedido implica na  exigência do pagamento   do  valor das parcelas já vencidas  com  os
acréscimos  previstos nos  artigos 29 e 35 do Código Tributário do Município  de  Contagem.
2 - Documento  de identidade e CPF do proprietário.
3 - Documento  de identidade e CPF do portador  da patologia, caso não seja o proprietário do imóvel.
5 - Laudo emitido por serviço médico oficial da União, dos Estados, do Distrito Federal ou dos Municípios, bem como por unidade de
Saúdecadastrada  pelo Sistema Único  de Saúde - SUS.
6 - Comprovante  de propriedade/titularidade ou posse do  imóvel. Este imóvel deve ser único de que o contribuinte ou seu cônjuge
BUS   DRIVER’S     NAME:
(Must correspond to name on driver’s license)
Price revision      Revise prices upon  entry    1.  Determine/negotiate    rules of price revision
changing            generic/biosimilar           3.  Revise  prices according  to data and  rules
market              products
landscape
509.324.1500                                     |    re
□   Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing                □   Nausea/vomiting/diarrhea
□   Fever of 100.4°F or higher or a sense of having a          □   Congestion/runny  nose – not related to seasonal
fever                                                          allergies
□   Sore throat                                                □   Unusual fatigue
AUTORIZAÇÃO          DE  SÓCIO     PARA    ATENDIMENTO
PELA    SECRETARIA        DA   FAZENDA
ENDERE Ç O
TELEFONE
NOME  DA PESSOA AUTORIZADA                                     TELEFONE
CPF/MF                                    IDENTIDADE / ÓRGAO EXPEDIDOR
loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored, or
otherwise processed,  in any form or medium   and is not limited to unauthorized access to
country without  undue  delay,  and where   feasible within 72  hours  of becoming   aware  of the
breach,  unless  the breach  is unlikely to result in a risk to affected individuals.
enumerated    exceptions.
Articles 33-34, Data Breach
Article 83, Fines for the Infringement of this Regulation
Templates                           See  EU GDPR    Informed  Consent   Form   Addendum
Page 12 of 13
include another   form  of payment    on file.
Credit Card Information:
Name   of Patient:     Doyle                                                     Fidela
Last                                                      First                                                     MI
Name   of Cardholder:  Boyer                                                     Walter
Last                                                      First                                                     MI
Card Type:                   Visa           MC          Amex         Discover   Expiration Date: 03        / 23       CVV#:  553
Credit Card Number   (last four numbers only):   4                9              3            0
Billing Address (Required): 7998 Chase Cir APT 1 Arvada, CO 80003, USA
Authorized  Signature:                                                                  Date:  03 01 2020
indicate?                 The lower (diastolic) number is the pressure when the heart is resting between beats.
What  is a "normal"  adult blood      Less than 140 over 90
pressure  reading?
DADOS DADOS DADOS DADOS DO DO DO DO CANDIDATO CANDIDATO CANDIDATO CANDIDATO
Nome: Nome: Nome: Nome: Andre Jakurski
Cargo/função Cargo/função Cargo/função Cargo/função pretendido: pretendido: pretendido: pretendido: Gerente
Post-normal   science (Funtowicz   and Ravetz,
premised   on citizen science successes  (Bonney                  RECOMMENDATIONS                                 scientific research.
Bioethical codes
Bioethics  education               SECOND-LEVEL         PRACTICE                         of practice
to facilitate                         RECOMMENDATIONS                                  (Baker, 2015;                Theory  predicting
Development related           professional field                                                                     Tartzian et al.,             era of biomedical
theory         to             development                                                                            2015)  making
‘wicked  problems’            (White  et al., 2014).                   CITIZEN      SCIENCE:                           maximised                  research, requiring
Rittel and Webber,                                                LITERATURES         TO  LINK    TO                transparency and              high volume  data
accountability
transdisciplinary                                                   AND    ACCOUNTABILITY                                                         protein-based
inputs into                                                                                                           Open   peer                 biologics (Scannell
bioethics.                    bioethical diversity in                                                            journals to generate
disciplines versus                Proactively            An  explicit focus on         immediacy   in
training as a specialist         strengthening           communication    to ensure     Bioethical
discipline (Grady,            ethics preparedness        validity of public            conversations             Probabilistic
2015)               (O’Keefe  et al., 2015)          2014).                 volume   data,
knowledge   inputs
Participant-led biomedical  research (Vayena                             Stakeholder  theory (Freeman,  1984)  offers a                    into societal
and Tasioulas,  2013), and increasing                                    theoretical framework  which  places those                        problem   solving
affected by breakthroughs  and  consequences
legitimacy  of population involvement  in                                of biomedical  research at the centre of                          (Callaghan,  2016).
scientific research.
bioethics debates.
Paul R. Spaniola                                     /s/ Christina Grossi
Prosecuting  Attorney                                Christina M. Grossi
NOME:    Andre  Jakurski
DATA  DE NASCIMENTO:   02/06/1995
NOME  DA MÃE: Ana   Cristina Reif de Paula
RG RESPONSÁVEL    (obrigatório para menores de 18 anos): 34.684.274-8
NOME  DO RESPONSÁVEL:    Thomas    Leitz
ENDEREÇO:   Av.  Amazonas,    5855  - Bloco  C – Sala  D4  - Gameleira,  Belo  Horizonte,  MG,  Brazil
INSTITUIÇÃO DE  ENSINO:     University  of São  Paulo
DISTÂNCIA  PERCORRIDA   ATÉ A INSTITUIÇÃO DE ENSINO:
(  ) Horizontina = 20 Km                       (  ) Ijuí = 72 Km
(  ) Santa Rosa = 34 Km                        (  ) Santo Ângelo = 96 Km
DADOS  DA CONTA  BANCÁRIA:
Nome  e número do banco: Banco do Brasil
Número da conta bancária: 7386-5
Assinatura do estudante universitário
Data   de  Nascimento:       01  /  03 / 1996      Idade:     19               Nacionalidade: Nacionalidade: Brazilian
Documento Documento de de identidade: identidade: -                           Órgão Órgão Emissor: Emissor: -
CPF:           063464204-96                      (  ) próprio        (   ) responsável
Responsável Responsável legal legal (se (se menor menor de de 18 18 anos): anos): Arthur Pesquisa
Rua/Av.:       R. do  Areal,   522  - Parque    Pereque                         Número: Número: Número: Complemento: Complemento: Complemento: Nenhum
Telefone Telefone Celular: Celular: ( ( ) )               E E-mail:             anareif@petrobras.com.br
(Candidato      ou   responsável)
Servidor:              AWS-
Nome  do Candidato: ndidato: Ana Cristina Reif de Paula
Estado Civil: Solteiro                                     Sexo:  (  ) Feminino  ( ) Masculino
Endereço:  R. do Areal, 522 - Parque Pereque                                          nº 522
Telefone Residencial: (98) 98402-1128                     Celular: (98) 3453-1170
References                                                                                                                 I
Appendices                                                                                                            XXVI
Appendix   A: Resolution WHA70.12                                                                           XXVIII
Appendix   B: Five-year age standardized   survival rates for cancers                                       XXXIII
Appendix   D: List of key publications relating to reviews of medicine pricing                                  XL
Appendix   E: Health expenditure  on  pharmaceuticals  and  disease  burden                                    XLI
Curso:
1-  Arthur     Pesquisa
2-  Rafael     Barbastefano
Membro   suplente da banca avaliadora da Dissertação de Mestrado:
Geraldo       Coen
12/04/2020
NOME  COMPLETO:                                                                SEXO:
Mauricio Machado                                                               ( ) MAS ( )FEM
DATA  DE NASCIMENTO: 08/04/2000                    NATURALIDADE:
FILIAÇÃO (PAI, MÃE OU RESPONSÁVEL LEGAL):
RG: 179082371                   ÓRGÃO  EMISSOR/UF:                 CPF: 080478214-82
CERTIDÃO  DE NASCIMENTO:                                     NACIONALIDADE*¹:
Primary Member  Name   (First)                                       (Last)
Renee                                         Cooper
Joint Member Name      (First)                                        (Last)
01 2320  230  1 006                                                (304)525-3030
Choose  the month  you wish  to take advantage of our Skip-A-Payment  offer: (Choose one  only)
   November  2020 (must be submitted by Nov 6th)                December  2020  (must be submitted by Dec 4th)
Vehicle  Loan                                    Personal   Loan
Please take the $30 processing  fee for             Savings Account
each loan from  my:
 I will make the payment at the branch
(Must be paid before processing)
All Persons who  signed the original loan document  must sign this request form.
Signature                                                                             Date
Joint Signature                                                                       Date
Fax  your   application   to (404) 845-5033    or Email  to credit.union@northside.com          or Deliver  to your
closest   branch.
Plate Number:                                                          Unit Number:
This draft guidance,  when  finalized, will represent the Food and Drug  Administration’s   (FDA’s)  current
the applicable statutes and regulations.  If you want to discuss an alternative approach,  contact the FDA
follow if they choose to distribute to health care professionals2 or health care entities3 scientific
address issues specific to the distribution of new information about  risks associated with a drug
that further characterizes risks identified in the approved labeling.
information  (as that term is further explained in section II of this document) for drugs intended
regulations and guidances  specific to drugs intended  for human  use. Unless  otherwise  indicated,
the Agency  generally  takes a similar approach when   addressing the issues raised in this draft
guidance  as they pertain to animal drugs.
the Food  and Drug  Administration.
2 For purposes of this draft guidance, health care professionals include those providing care to either human or
animal patients.
formulary  committees,  pharmacy  benefit managers,  health insurance issuers, group health plans, and Federal or
State governmental  agencies involved  in the provision of health care or health insurance. For purposes of the draft
6 This guidance does  not apply to products regulated as medical devices.
cancer  mortality                                           Yes  /No /Not clear
quality of life                                             Yes  /No /Not clear
side effects                                                Yes  /No /Not clear
Amount  to be charged to
Credit Card Number                     4485595211261495
Expiration Date                         03-03-2022
CVC Code                                    785
Billing Address                       40902   Ingersoll Terrace  #205
State and Zip Code                     CA,94538    USA
e-mail address                  myesha.orn@gmail.com
EXPIRATION DATE          CVC CODE                BILLING ZIP CODE
Paciente          Responsável
Nome  legível        Coen                             Assinatura:
Local e data: Vitoria e 02/12/2020
sujeito (e/ou ao seu  responsável), explicando  sobre os  riscos e alternativas, e respondendo  às
perguntas realizadas. De acordo com  meu  entendimento,  o paciente (e/ou ao seu responsável), está
em  condições de compreender  o que lhes foi informado.
Monica   Herz                                      65247
Primary   type
Men                Hodgkin  lymphoma                                                                                   1.9*
Lung  &  bronchus                                                              1.4*
Melanoma                                                            1.3*
Esophagus                                                          1.3*
Non-Hodgkin   lymphoma                                                         1.2*
Brain & ONS                                                     1.2*
Liver & intrahepatic bile duct                                               1.1
Myeloma                                           1.0
Pancreas                                 0.8*
Prostate                        0.6*
Women              Hodgkin  lymphoma                                                                                                  2.2*
Lung  &  bronchus                                                                        1.6*
Esophagus                                                                         1.6*
Non-Hodgkin   lymphoma                                                          1.2*
Leukemia                                                       1.2*
Breast                                                    1.2*
Colon  & rectum                                                  1.1*
Brain & ONS                                                1.0
Source:  Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End  Results (SEER) Program, 9 SEER registries, National Cancer Institute.96
Candidate’s Name:    Breann                                    Dicki
(Family/ Last Name)                      First Name
Phone  No:            516-985-0812
Credit Card  No.:                           4556183623134180
Credit Card  Expiration Date:                   03 01 2023
Security Code  (3-Digit Code):         334
Description  of Charge:                     Donation
First Name                             M. Initial              Last  Name
Email
Home   Address
Address   (Line 2)
City                                  State                         ZIP  Code
Province/Country  (If
NAME
Manager
TITLE
406  Calle Macho
ADDRESS
(231)947-6921                           (269)763-9407
PHONE                                  FAX
mleiser@largo.com
Conference   Fees:         SWANA/MRN     Member*                Non-Member
Full Conference                           $195                    $235      $ 195
Thursday  Only                            $135                    $155      $
Less SWANA-MA     Special ($45 Deduction  per SWANA    Member)              $
Total Due       $ 195
Payment:           Check   (Payable  to MRN)          MasterCard/Visa           Amex
Card  No.: 5416300029979672                                          Exp  Date:  08/05/2023
Address  of Cardholder   (only if different from above):
Same    as  above
ADDRESS
CITY                                                STATE                 ZIP
Address                      1200  HIGHLAND      AVE,  NATIONAL      CITY,  CA,  91950,  United  States  of America
Last four of Social Security 9014
Phone  Number               (478)987-0707
Case Number  (if known)         558947
Alain  tanugi                                         02-04-2020
Signature                                             Name  (Print)                                  Date
Michael           Gordon                                                                                               2     L     N      H     M     8      2     V     X      8     X     6      3     2     9      0     2
ADDRESS                                                                                                               VEHICLE   YEAR
585      Grove         St                                                                                             2012
CITY                                                               STATE              ZIP                             VEHICLE   MAKE
Herndon             VA      20170                                                                                     2016
2017
VEHICLE   MILEAGE     (AS OF  OCT.   1ST)
Current       Vehicle       Value      . . . . .   $                                                                  12km
Purchase        Price.     . . . . . . . . . . .   $
Year     Acquired        . . . . . . . . . . . .
SUMMARY           OF   COMPLAINT
No      Comments
(cid:2)   None                                                                           (cid:2)   Vehicle             Review
(cid:2)   Market             Value          Deduction                                    (cid:2)   Market             Value          Increase
(cid:2)   Other
$
Market      Value     Adjustment         . . . . . .    $                                                             Signed
Final    Vehicle      Market      Value.     . . . .    $
(cid:2) For  current     tax   year    only
(cid:2) Unique     vehicle     status                                                                                                                                 MEMBER
Credit card number 4 0 6 7 4 1 7 4 7  7 4  9 7  1 9  0      Expiration date 0 2 2 0  2  2
0      0                                           Month Year
Amount to charge $ 5      0
Identification Number 8 3 0 2  5  3  2
Credit cardholder's billing address (Address where you receive your credit card statement)
Email s i l a s .  k u p  h a  l @  h o  t m a  i l  . c  o m
Policy Number 6 4 3 8  7  2 4  8         Renewal Date 0 4   0  7   2  0 2  0
Day  Month Year
Signature                                                     Date 09 07 2020
Paciente hospital                                Número  de randomização       2     1     5     1     6      2
Nome  do paciente                                relacionamento com
Versão  1.0 datada  de 26/11/2012
Nome  do paciente/representante          Data                     Assinatura (digital do dedão, ou outra marca, se não
Nome  da pessoa que está dando o
Marcio   Trigueiro                       12/04/2002
Nome  do Investigador Principal          Data                     Assinatura
1  Nome  do requerente:            Pericles Silva Pereira
n t                                     $7,273  Total monthly spending                                      $8  n t
t e                       $6,019                per                                                             t e
i                                                   patient                                                     i
r                                                                                                               r  0
P  t                                                                                                        $4  P  $
a  o                                                                                                            n  h
o    40%                                                                                                    $2  d  n
T  r                                                                                                            n  o
f  e 20%                                                                                                        e  M
o  P                                                                                                            p  r
t                                                                                                               S  e
n      0%                                                                                                   $0  l
c e        -11  -9  -7  -5  -3  -1  1   3   5   7   9   11  13  15  17  19  21  23  25  27  29  31  33  35      t a P
Chemotherapy, Chemotherapy Administration, and Related Drugs Other Drugs
Facility Services, Other                                    Professional and Other Services excl. Chemo and Rad Therapy
g            ■ Colorectal Cancer                                                                         t
n  $250,000    Breast                                                                            $25,000 e
i            ■       Cancer                                                                              k
S            Dotted lines represent patient                                                              o
h                                                                                                        t-
e                                                                                                        t
H  $100,000                                                                                      $10,000 n
l                                                                                                        e
a                                                                                                        t i
o t $50,000                                                                                      $5,000  P a
$0                                                                                      $0
Months from Diagnosis
Paid:
Child  Information                    Check #         Cash:
Child’s Name:   Jorge  Quintas
Address:   909 E Yorba  Linda Blvd
City:  Placentia                                     State:  CA                    Zip Code:   92870
Date of Birth: 25/05/1984               City of Birth: Placentia              Child’s religion: Catholic
Please list the location and date of each Sacrament your child has received:
Sacrament                           Location                            Date
First Reconciliation
First Communion
Home  Phone Number:  n/a                         Emergency Phone Number:  n/a
Dad’s Cell Phone: (734)242-9011                  Mom’s Cell Phone: (517)668-9299
E-Mail address: lorink@irbcity.com
1. NOME    DO   CURSO:
4. CARGA   HORÁRIA     TOTAL:
1. NOME   COMPLETO:
2. MATRÍCULA     SIAPE:                                        3. HORÁRIO    DE  TRABALHO:
6. ESCOLARIDADE:
Fundamental          Médio        Superior        Especialização   Lato Sensu          Mestrado          Doutorado
Tel:                                                                   Ramal:
8. ATIVIDADES    QUE   DESEMPENHA        EM  SUA  UNIDADE/ÓRGÃO:        (se necessário,  utilize o verso, rubricando no final)
9. O QUE   VOCÊ   ESPERA     DE  RESULTADOS      COM    A REALIZAÇÃO      DESTE   CURSO/EVENTO?         (se necessário, utilize o verso,
rubricando  no final)
10. O curso  será utilizado para fins de Licença Capacitação?          Sim             Não
DADOS    DA  CHEFIA
2. FUNÇÃO:
Assinatura do Solicitante                                      Assinatura e carimbo da Chefia Imediata
Em         /         /                                                 Em         /        /
NOME           CPF      MATRÍCULA      DATA  DOS    CARGO/FUNÇÃO       LOTAÇÃO       TIPO DE
COMPLETO                                  PRIMEIROS                                    VÍNCULO
DO SERVIDOR                                SINTOMAS
Miguel Pryor  046171124-99  27.777.891.8 03-03-1995     Gerente
NOME   COMPLETO          Wagner    Gentil
LOCALIDADE      Barueri,  Brasil  COD.POST.    | 0 | 6 4 | 6 | 0 |-| - 0 | 4 | 0 | TELEFONE 65- 3316-5342 TELEMÓVEL     91- 3216-1359
wagner.gentil@cemat.com.br                                                                       8 3 7  7 7 3  7 4 6 4
E-MAIL                                                                NÚMERO    DE  IDENTIFICAÇÃO     FISCAL  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
O  INTERNAMENTO             TEVE    LUGAR       NO   HOSPITAL        Hospitalis         Núcleo        Hospitalar          Barueri
DATA     (     01/01/19 / /        ) E HORA      (     09:00 :  pm  ) DO   INTERNAMENTO
DATA     (     02/02/19 / /        ) E HORA      (    09:00 :  pm   ) DA   ALTA    HOSPITALAR
IBAN: | B | R | 9 | 7 | 0 0 | 3 | 6 | 0 | 3 0 | 5 | 0 | 0 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 0 | 9 | 7 | 9 | 5 4 | 9 | 3 | P 1 | | | | |
SWIFT  BIC: | B | R | A | S B | R | R | J | S | D | R | |
Percent                                             Median        Estimated       5-year
age at      new  cases,     relative
All Sites                                                                                             65          1,685,210       67%
Urinary bladder                                                                                              73            76,960        77%
Gallbladder*                                                                                               72             11,420       18%
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia                                                                                              71            18,960        82%
Pancreas                                                                                               71            53,070         7%
Acute myeloid leukemia                                                                                               67            19,950        26%
Esophagus                                                                                                67             16,910       18%
Non-Hodgkin lymphoma                                                                                                 66            72,580        70%
Prostate                                                                                              66           180,890        99%
Larynx                                                                                               65            13,430        61%
Chronic myeloid leukemia                                                                                              64             8,220        63%
Liver & intrahepatic bile duct                                                                                           63            39,230        17%
Ovary                                                                                               63            22,280        46%
Oral cavity & pharynx                                                                                             62            48,330        63%
Uterine corpus                                                                                              62            60,050        82%
Eye & orbit                                                                                              61              2,810       82%
Soft tissue (including heart)                                                                                           59             12,310       65%
Brain & other nervous system                                                                                             58            23,770        33%
Uterine cervix                                                                                             49            12,990        68%
Bones & joints                                                                                              42             3,300        67%
Hodgkin lymphoma                                                                                                 38             8,500        86%
Testis                                                                                              33              8,720       95%
Acute lymphocytic leukemia                                                                                              14             6,590        68%
Age at diagnosis (years)
0-14          15-29         30-49          50-64          65+
Credit Card Type:          AMEX            MC            Visa
Full Card Number:
Expiration Date:                    /
CVV  (Security Code):
CNPJ(ou  CPF):                                       Inscrição Estadual:
E-mail:                                              Telefone(s):
Responsável pelo Estabelecimento (em caso de empresa):
Sócio/Titular/Responsável:                                           Telefone:
CPF:                                                                 Identidade/Órgão   Expedidor:
Address  – 619 High Street, Dedham  MA  02026
MasterCard              Fone:
Entrada  + Tx. de Embarque:                              Valor da Parcela:
A) Nome  do Segurado                                                     B) Data do Nascimento
K) Endereço (Rua, nº)                                             L) DDD  - Telefone
M) Bairro                                     N) Cidade                    O) CEP        P) UF
A) Data do Acidente                             B) Data do primeiro atendimento médico:
8
Hospital ou clínica onde foi prestada a assistência médica:
10 A) Nome                                            B) Especialidade
11 A) Tipos                                     B) Data de Início C) Nº de sessões D) Data de Término
A)  Localidade (cidade)                                                        B) Data
E) Endereço  do consultório (ou outros)                                        F) DDD   - Telefone
G) Bairro                                     H) Cidade                        I) CEP        J) UF
Acipimox   REDUCES     serum  free fatty acid
Mental  stress FOUND   significant hemodynamic    responses
Tl-201  washout  rate CALCULATED       lv end-diastolic volume index
Tl-201/bmipp   subtraction polar map  SHOWED     focal uptake pattern
Name:           John  Inman                         Social Security number: 361-42-5170
Address: 24511  SW   217th  Ave
Member   Signature:                                                Date: 05/10/2019
Existing    Enrollment                                   New    Enrollment
Type   of Direct   Deposit                            (To change the bank currently                         (To change  your paper checks
   Salary/Wages
   Pension                                                  Contact  your employer  or other payor directly with the information on this form.
   Dividend/Investment  Income
   Supplemental  Security Income  (SSI)                                                                            a                branch       you
or
   Railroad Retirement                               Call 1-877-772-5772  (1-312-751-4701   TTY)              for New  Enrollments only, you can visit
www.godirect.org
   Civil Service Retirement                          Call 1-888-767-6738  (1-800-878-5707   TTY)               or call Go Direct at 1-800-333-1795.
(Office of Personal Management)
   Veterans  Compensation   and  Pension                Call 1-877-838-2778   (1-800-829-4833   TTY), or visit a MIDFLORIDA   Branch  near you.
Contact  the agency  directly. Or call Go Direct at 1-800-333-1795
   Other Federal  Agency  Benefits                                      to get the telephone numbers  of many  federal agencies.
Step    3:  Monitor     Your    Account
Name   (please print) Lorraine Peluso                                         I.D. # 2538971
License plate # T784392C                 State CA             Year of Vehicle  2015      Color  Black
Make  Model  of Vehicle  GMC  Terrain SLE1
Cell  Phone  (231)832-5521
Signature                                                         Date  10/05/2019
Office Use Only
Green*            Libertarian*               Natural Law Party*
Able  to   build  positive  and  3.92 (0.91)   4.44 (0.71)  0.520    3.38**     .003    0.64
healthy         mentor/mentee                               (0.15)   (24)
relationships with my students
Able    to    use    mentoring   3.68 (1.07)   4.44 (0.71)  0.760    3.61**     .001    0.84
conduct,  generate,  or pursue
scientific research
Able  to identify my  students’  3.92 (0.95)   4.36 (0.57)  0.440    2.53*      .018    0.56
needs,  interests,  goals, and                              (0.17)   (24)
strengths and weaknesses
Aware   of  mentoring  support   2.84 (1.25)   3.68 (1.31)  0.840    3.13**     .005    0.66
Overall      confidence      in  4.06 (0.56)   4.53 (0.62)  0.471    3.77**     .002    0.80
mentoring  students                                         (0.13)   (16)
Believe      mentoring      for  4.92 (0.28)   4.88 (0.33)  0.040    0.57 (24)  .574    --
important to their success
Management  Faculty Research                                  Management, Marketing and MIS
Telefone  Fixo: ( 55 ) 98 98112-7250                  Celular: (   )
Órgão  de  Lotação:  Instituto Federal de Educação,   Ciência  e Tecnologia   Baiano
Unidade   de Exercício:  15
Cargo  Efetivo: Ainda   não  definido
Função:  Qual?   Criação de estruturas de rede                  FG   (  )   CD   (  )
Breve  descrição  das atividades:
Exp. Date:      09/26                                  Security  Code:  550
Billing Address:  18  Conway    St, Shelburne   Falls, MA, 01370,   USA
after the date indicated:
  $50  for the SAU-ESL  application*                $50  for conditional (under)graduate admission*
The  total amount charged to my account  will be US$ 400
(Signature)                                      (Date)
Please  submit  form to: pkandidatov@saumag.edu
Remote   Learning Resources  for English as a Second Language  (ESL)
English Language  Learners, including a list of digital resources for content areas, from local school districts in New
Contact  information
If you have questions, contact the NJDOE’s  Office of Supplemental Educational  Programs  via email at
ELL@doe.nj.gov.  We  look forward  to our continued partnership  to support New  Jersey’s ELLs.
c:  Members,   State Board of Education
NJDOE  Staff
Garden  State Coalition of Schools
(Please Print)   William Kirby
(M/D/Year)      3/11/1994                                            (616)     678-5380
Email Address
Planned  Parenthood  Mar  Monte  Use Only
MRN   847401                                  Patient  ID Verified By William Pickrum
Child’s Name                                        Date of Birth
Child’s Name                                        Date of Birth
Nome  Completo                  Vínculo*
dos Beneficiários          (Grau de Relacionamento)   CPF         % de Indenização**
Endereço:     R.  do Areal,   522  - Parque    Pereque,    Angra   dos  Reis   - RJ,  23953-030,     Brazil                        Telefone:    (98)  98402-1128
Nome:     Arthur  Pesquisa
Student’s Name:    Megan  Wepfer
Age: 25            Date &  Place of Birth: 06/11/1995, Chicago
Father’s Name:     Aaron  Diebold
Mother’s Name   (Maiden Name):      Renee Cooper
Address:     808 W Cuyler Ave Chicago IL 60613
Phone:  (248)628-2538                       Email:  mwepfer@madeirabeachfl.gov
grupo  4      e cota veiculo   solicito que seja enviada para concessionária a
CNPJ:  05119385000124
Endereço: R. Ulisses Morais, 81 - Olaria
Cidade: Nova  Lima / MG                                  CEP:  34000-000
Fone/fax: (71) 3283-7110  / (71) 3254-5143
Keith Fogarty
5829751
Teacher/Grade:
William Kirby / 10th
Mark Walters
(517)629-2900
Device      Brand:
Device     Mac    Address:
6A:EB:82:65:D9:F0
• Aerobics  classes         •  Dance  lessons           • Football
• Weight   Watchers®        •  Kickboxing               • Hockey
and  Jenny  Craig®      •  Baseball                 • Soccer
• Swim   lessons            •  Gymnastics               • And   more!
Subscriber    information
Subscriber’s last name                                          First name                         Middle  initial
Wirth                                                           Bruce
City Evanston                                                    State IL                ZIP 60201
Subscriber ID # (located on the front of your Fallon ID card)    Telephone  number
77969OR5290003                                                   (734)242-9011
Type  of activity/item                      Program/gym/name/retailer                    Benefit year     Amount   requested
o   This completed  form.
form for a school/town  activity. These must show the beginning  and  ending  dates of membership   activity and the
o   Dated  original receipts or copies of bank/credit card statements showing  the charge for membership,   classes or
send a copy  of the front and back of the cancelled check.
Also, a brochure  from the health club, facility or program may be requested.
Certification   and  authorization    (This form must be signed and  dated below  by the subscriber.)
Full Name:
(First Name,   Middle Name,    &   Last Name)
(Street Address,  Apt/Unit  #,  City, State,  &   Zip)
(Date of Birth)
(Required)
Known   Social  URLS   (optional)
Current Employer:
(Required)
Código do convênio:    88794
Médico  Veterinário(a): Julio Milko                                     CRMV:     8879
Nome   do Animal:       Alex
Proprietário:         Mauricio   Machado
Espécie:       -                                               Raça:    brasileiaro
Sexo:            MASCULINO                                     Nascimento:   03-03-1974
Histórico Clínico:     NA
□    Hemograma                                 □    Cultura bacteriológica
□    Pesquisa de Hemoparasitas                 □    Cultura de Ouvido
□    Histopatológico                           □    Outros (especificar):
□    Perfil Renal
□    Perfil:
mento cirúrgico para amputação  do membro   acima descrito;
riscos de realizá-la ou não, os seus benefícios, possíveis intercorrências, eventuais complicações e, também,
detalhadamente  respondidas  e as minhas dúvidas foram  esclarecidas satisfatoriamente;
ções emergenciais, inesperadas  e não discutidas ou previstas, poderá ser necessário qualquer outro procedi-
mento  cirúrgico ou invasivo, a realização de novos exames, a aplicação de  medicamentos   e até transfusão
4.   Estou ciente que, durante  o procedimento,  o médico  responsável  poderá  alterar o nível do membro  a ser
quado tratamento;
5.   Tenho  consciência que, apesar da evolução da medicina  e da perícia do médico, não existe qualquer garantia
de resultado do tratamento e que todo tipo de procedimento  cirúrgico para amputação  de membros   pode  ter
complicações  inesperadas, risco de sequelas graves, incapacidade permanente  e até de morte;
cas e cirúrgicas, inclusive as medicações em uso ou  já utilizadas, e fui avisado que qualquer omissão ou in-
Student: Bette Nicka                        Birthdate: 02/06/2000
School: Lincoln Elementary  School          Grade: A
Other directions for use: None
Possible side effects: None                              Emergency  Action:                     or    911
(Print Name)                    (Sign Name)                    (Relationship)
2.  Patrick Clarke                                                  Friend
Information   regarding  my  account(s)   to the individual(s) listed above.
254   - 049   - 770          03-05-2020
(Employee Signature)          (Social Security Number)               (Date)
they  will be required  to verify the employee’s   Social  Security  Number.
TO:  Name  and Address  of Plan Administrator:                            FROM:   Name  and Address  of Property:
Applicant’s Name:
Social Security Number:
My  signature authorizes release of the requested information on this inquiry.
Signature of Applicant/Resident                              Date
Type Of Card
Expiration Date                               (Format:00/00)
PIN Number                                    (3 or 4 Digit Number on Back of Card)
Company   Name
Billing Address
City,State,Zip
Comments
First                                                    Last                                                    Public Educator  ID or
William                                                      Kirby
First Name                                                    Last Name
08      /  09    / 2019
Signature                                                                                                        Date
Hamilton   High  School
College/University Name
08 /  04    / 2019                 MS
Graduation Date                    Degree
Electronics                                                  Networking
Major                                                         Minor
wkirby@dunedinfl.net
Email Address
( 616   ) 678-5380 -                         https://www.linkedin.com/in/william-kirby-a002ab2a/
Phone Number                                Student’s LinkedIn Profile
08 /  05    / 1997
Date of Birth
2301  W   Impala  Ave   Mesa,   AZ  85202
Card Holder: Cassaundra  Dicki                     Phone  # (412) 336-7532
Street Address:   1427 C St SE
Bank Name:    Chase   bank           Bank Phone  Number:  (412) 336-7532
Date: 03    / 05   /  20
You  can also fax back to: 501-982-4876 or send scanned copies (PDF) via Email w/attachments  to
miranda@sasparts.com.
1-SIASG                            1- INCLUSÃO
4- TROCA   DE  SENHA     Nº DO  DOCUMENTO
1.1. IDENTIFICAÇÃO        DO   OPERADOR
6- UNIDADE GESTORA                                                       7- CÓDIGO
8- ENDEREÇO E EMAIL
9- TELEFONE                         10- ASSINATURA DO OPERADOR
1.2. ATRIBUTOS       DE   CREDENCIAMENTO
11- NOME DO SUPERIOR IMEDIATO
Rafael   Barbastefano
12- CARGO/FUNÇÃO                            13- ASSINATURA DO SUPERIOR IMEDIATO
14- NOME  DO CADASTRADOR                                              15- DATA  DO CREDENCIAMENTO
Claudio     Haddad                                                     08/02/1998
18- OBSERVAÇÃO                                     19- ASSINATURA   DO CADASTRADOR
1 NEW
10
9                                                                          1 NEW
Development 6                                                           8
Cancer 7
7                                       7
6             6                   6     6
Brain  5
Under 4             1 NEW
of                    APPROVAL           4
Longer 2
3
No   1             2
0            0                          0      1                                                          1
0
1998   1999  2000   2001   2002  2003   2004   2005   2006  2007   2008   2009  2010   2011   2012  2013   2014
75    ToTAl UNSUCCESSFUl DRUgS | 3  ToTAl APPRovED MEDICINES
DATA  DE NASCIMENTO:  0/02/1971
NOME  DA MÃE  DO PACIENTE: Monica Herz
NOME  DO RESPONSÁVEL    PELO PACIENTE:  Thomas Leitz
NOME  DO ENFERMEIRO:   Luiz F. C da Silva
COREN:
(   ) INCLUSÃO               ALTERAÇÃO           (   ) mudança       de   plano                                    (    ) EXCLUSÃO
(   ) outros
Nome:    Ana    Cristina     Reif   de   Paula
Matrícula    SIAPE:     6524789                      Situação:       Ativo(     )      Aposentado(          )      Pensionista(        )
Endereço: R. do Areal, 522 - Parque  Pereque
Bairro:                             Cidade: Angra dos  Reis       Estado: RJ CEP: 23953-030
Telefone: (98) 98402-1128            E-mail: anareif@petrobras.com.br
CPF          Nome  do  Dependente                               Grau de Parentesco  Data de Nascimento
(b) to other  researchers?
()            ()            ()            ()           0)
of  no                                                extremely
importance                                              important
Does  the  paper describe applications  or illustrate potential applications?
Mlustrates potential applications
No  applications  described
()            ()            ()            ()            ()
Very  hard to               Average  for                Very easy to
Example:  ‘Put mathematics   in an  appendix’)
Is the title descriptive and short?
No  (suggest  new  title)
Is the abstract complete  and correct?
No  (suggest  changes)
Yes  (by what  percentage?        °%)
No
No   (list some relevant papers that should  be added)
Yes
No  (show errors  here or on manuscript)
. Does  the paper  follow the ‘Guidelines to Authors’?
Yes
No  (suggest changes)
. Please classify the paper (check  all that apply):
(a) Empirical  (check only  one item  in section (a))
(1) Exploratory
(4) Describes  methods
(7) Case study
Home  Phone:                                    Home  Mailing Address:
Amount  of Rollover Requested: $
Member   or Beneficiary Signature:                                                     Date:
*Only one account  type is allowed per form. Additional forms must be completed for each account type.
Custodian  Name:
Mailing Address:
Custodian Signature:                                                          Date:
Custodian Printed Name:                                                       Phone  Number:
Autorizamos o Sr.(a) Michael    Edgar    Perlman
a submeter-se ao Exame  Médico Ocupacional para:
FUNÇÃO   (de REGISTRO):   5154152152
Admissional          Demissional           Periódico           Retorno ao trabalho           Mudança  de função
Outros Exames  Complementares:
Dados  da empresa:
O Pagamento  será efetuado através do:          Funcionário              Empresa
Data: 02     / 02     /                 Horário: 10:00
Encaminhado  por (nome): Julio   Milko
Endereço: Av. Amazonas,   5855 - Bloco C – Sala D4 - Gameleira                 Nº 5855
CEP:  30510-000
Município:                     UF  MG
+55    99236-9548
Telefone:    61                             Celular: -
RENDA    PER  CAPITA   FAMILIAR   (para fins deste  edital, é composta   pela somatória  da  renda  da
família dividida pelo número  de  pessoas  que  compõem    a família. Exemplo: 5 pessoas:   Pai, mãe e
dividindo por 5, igual a R$ 250,00 de renda per capita familiar).
Projovem adolescente                                 Proteção social básica
PETI                                                 Seguro Desemprego
Tem    deficiência?     (   )Sim        (    )Não    Especifique:
CURSO       PRETENDIDO:           Ciências    Sociais
Unidade      ofertante:    (   ) SENAC                (  ) SENAI              (   ) IFPR
Declaro    verdadeiras      as  informações      acima.
Londrina,     11          / 20          / 20
Instituição
Função
Endereço
R. Antônio de Albuquerque, 330 - 12nd floor - Savassi Belo Horizonte MG 30112-010
Telefones                                         Fax
ajakurski@jgp.com.br
Perfis Solicitados
Nome
Cargo  / Função                                          Unidade
Declaro  estar ciente do conteúdo  do  Manual  de  Orientação  para Cadastramento   de  Usuário  no
The  timeframe of exposure  assessment  in observational studies will be recorded as follows:
-Exposure  assessment  refers to a period before primary breast cancer diagnosis (childhood,
-Exposure  assessment  refers to the period during therapy for primary breast cancer.
-Exposure  assessment  refers to a period after primary breast cancer diagnosis.
HIRING DEPARTMENT/I.D.                    SUPERVISOR’S NAME                      SUPERVISOR’S EXT
LEVEL (A,B, C)                        HOURLY  RATE                           MAX HOURS/WEEK
/
EFFECTIVE START DATE               REC #           PS POSITION NUMBER    /   JOB CODE                        END DATE
/
EFFECTIVE START DATE              REC #           PS POSITION NUMBER     /  JOB CODE                        END DATE
APPROPRIATE ADMINISTRATOR/APPROVAL NAME          APPROPRIATE ADMINISTRATOR/APPROVAL SIGNATURE               DATE
Date  of Accident:                                   City/Town   where  accident occurred:
Driver’s Name:   (Last, First, Middle Initial)
Operator  and/or  Vehicle  Owner’s  Signature                                                         Date
To request the report of a crash that either you and/or your vehicle were involved in, be sent to you or to another individual/entity,
NH   Dept  of Safety, DMV    – FR/Accidents,   23 Hazen  Drive,  Concord,  NH    03305
NAME   Kareem  Boyle
PHONE  (802) 909-1236
kareem.boyle@hotmail.com
EMAIL
BIRTHDATE 03 01 1990
PLACE OF BUSINESS  9904 Daniel Dr Fairdale, KY 40118, USA
BUSINESS ADDRESS
WHOM  WERE YOU REFERRED BY (if anyone) Colin Dicki
PLEASE LIST CURRENT MEMBERSHIPS
TELL US A LITTLE ABOUT YOURSELF   Electrical Engineer
b) independent  not-blinded assessment  (for exposures  that can’t be masked)  *
c) record linkage *
d) self report
a) complete  follow up - all subjects accounted for *
b) subjects lost to follow up unlikely to introduce bias - small number lost (less than 10
description provided  of those lost) *
We  will exclude from  the assessment::
1) Representativeness  of the exposed cohort
Número  do Banco:                         Nome   do Banco: Banco   do  Brasil
Conta-corrente nº: 37406-8                Dígito: 271    Conta-poupança   nº: 30450-6               Dígito: 284
Aluno: Andre  Jakurski                                                    Matrícula: 4009613
Co-orientador: Arthur Pesquisa
Rafael Barbastefano               barbastefano@gmail.com              011  55 98 98112-7250
☐ Other
Cardholder Name   (as shown on card): Keith Fogarty
Card Number:   5416300029979672
Cardholder ZIP Code  (from credit card billing address): 66215
Vogler (2016)     Jurisdiction: 16 European   countries,          The difference
Setting: official list prices per unit at ex-   lowest priced
factory price level                             28%  and 388%,
Time  frame:  February–June   2013              distribution:
Medicine:   31 cancer medicines; all but two    •   28–50%
medicines  (gemcitabine  and  zoledronic            sample)
acid) were originator medicines                 •   50–100%
•   100–200%
•   >200%
Name:                                              DOB:
Address:
SSN:
Specific records include:    □ H&P         □  Clinical Notes     □ Treatment  Summary
Patient                           Drug
Start date
Administration  time
Stop  date
Duration
Correct  drug name
Drug  concentration
Drug  volume
Volume   of diluent       Overfill        Drug  in overfill
Special  delivery devices (tubing, cassette, container, etc.)
Correct  route of administration
Correct  line type, as appropriate
Correct  total volume
Pharmacist’s  initials                   Date
q   Yes q   No                                                Signature (required)                     Date
Emergency   Contact  Phone   Numbers:
The  following people are authorized to            Full Name                    Phone Number
Full Name                   Phone  Number                     Full Name                    Phone Number
NAME: us  Bank
CITY: Marietta
STATE:
GA
30067
ABA ROUTING NUMBER:
2    6    5   3    7    7    9    2   1
ACCOUNT  TYPE: CHECKING:     or SAVINGS:
DATE:      /     /
SIGNATURE:  (ACCOUNT   HOLDER):
SIGNATURE   (CO-HOLDER):
Phone  Number  ( (616)    ) - 887-7323       E-mail  kfogarty@dunedinfl.net
Select Your Account Type      □   Checking           □  Savings
Nome: Nome: Nome: Nome: Andre Jakurski
RG: RG: RG: RG: 34.684.274-8             CPF: CPF: CPF: CPF: 053697644-92
DIRETORIA DE EXTENSÃO, RELAÇÕES EMPRESARIAIS E COMUNITÁRIAS - DIREC
CENTRO  DE IDIOMAS DO IFAM /CMC - CIIFAM
FORMULÁRIO       DE  INSCRIÇÃO
PROJETO   DE  EXTENSÃO:   CAPACITAÇÃO     EM  LÍNGUAS   ADICIONAIS  DESTINADA    AOS
SERVIDORES    E ALUNOS   DO  IFAM /CMC
NOME   DO CURSO:   Cadeia de abastecimento 101
PERFIL   DO  CANDIDATO:
( ) FUNCIONÁRIO     DO IFAM           (   ) ALUNO  DO  IFAM
CEP:          23953-030            Cidade:      Angra  dos  Reis  UF: RJ     Naturalidade:
E-mail: anareif@petrobras.com.br
Nome   do  Pai: Arthur Pesquisa
Nome   da  Mãe:  Monica Herz
N º de Matrícula  (Aluno): 3900661
Data  de início do efetivo exercício:   11  / 20   / 2020
Campus    que  realizará o Curso: Campus   Norte
OBSERVAÇÕES      IMPORTANTES
Regimento e avaliação do do IFAM curso, e bem nas como demais as orientações legislações de do ensino, coordenador respeitar do mesmo; as normas de freqüência e avaliação do curso,
bem 2. Responsabiliza-se como as orientações por do todo coordenador e qualquer do dano mesmo; que vier causar aos bens patrimoniais do IFAM, arcando, portanto,
2. com Responsabiliza-se o seu ressarcimento por todo ou reposição; e qualquer dano que vier causar aos bens patrimoniais do IFAM, arcando, portanto,
Recolhimento mediante autorização da União); por escrito do ministrante e com o conhecimento da Coordenação do Centro de Idiomas até
mediante  autorização por escrito do ministrante e com o conhecimento  da CCE   até o 2º (segundo) dia de aula do
Required  Criteria (Education Code 313[d])                               TTUSD  Criteria
(CELDT)                                           no subtest lower than  Early Advanced (K-5), Intermediate (6-12)
Parental Opinion and  Consultation                               Parental opinion and  consultation
Teacher  Evaluation of Curriculum Mastery                 Grades  K-5 Basic “3” in Language Arts and Math
Nome    do Titular do Cartão  (igual ao  cartão): Tasso    Jereissati
Código   de Segurança    (os três últimos  dígitos impressos   no verso  do cartão,  após  o nº deste):   285
Telefone   para contato:  +5598982965894
(  ) Agência/Operadora    de  Turismo           (  ) Cia. Aérea
Moeda:     ( ) R$ - Real     ( ) US$  - Dólar          Nº de  parcelas:
Tx. De  Embarque:     R$ 4000                                   Total da Venda         R$ 130000
Declaração
através   do meu   cartão  de  credito  $500000                  Número    614.925-0                                      , as
VIAJANTES     (PARA    MAIS   NOMES     UTILIZE   O VERSO)
2-) Pericles    Silva  Pereira                                  7-) -
3-) Otavio   Pontes                                             8-) -
4-) Marcio   Trigueiro                                          9-) -
Nome    do Titular do Cartão  (igual ao  cartão): Tasso    Jereissati
Validade:  -                                                  CPF   do Titular: 046171124-99
(  ) Agência/Operadora    de  Turismo           (  ) Cia. Aérea
Cód.  Aut.: 285                                  Data:  08/04/2019
Moeda:     ( ) R$ - Real     ( ) US$  - Dólar          Nº de  parcelas:
Entrada:              R$ 50000                                  Valor da Parcela:      R$ 4000
Tx. De  Embarque:     R$ 4000                                   Total da Venda         R$ 130000
Declaração
Declaro   para  os devidos  fins que,  eu Tasso    Jereissati                                    , estou  ciente que  pagarei
através   do meu   cartão  de  credito  $500000                  Número    614.925-0                                      , as
1-) Mauricio   Machado                                          6-) -
3-) Otavio   Pontes                                             8-) -
Semester                   Year                               Credits Earned             Grade
I am submitting the following for review:                      Syllabus                            Lab Syllabus
Departmental  Adviser or Chair (please print)                 Department
This course is equivalent to the following Rutgers-NB course:
This course should count as a general elective in my department, and should be given the
transfer equivalent code 01:        :EC. (enter your department  code)
This course should be given elective credit only. It should not count as a course for my
This course is not transferable.
DEAN’S  OFFICE  USE ONLY                                                                                  Rev 12/15
sample      _pfdt
per rfip
dihydrofolate    reductase
svmnt
[   ff  VOSviewer
Cluster # 1 (red) = 138 items
Chloroquine  resistance transporter                                                                                          20
Chloroquine-resistant                                                                                                         15
Chloroquine-resistant  malaria                                                                                                21
Chloroquine-resistant  P. falciparum                                                                                          11
CQR   (chloroquine resistance)                                                                                               38
Transporter                                                                                                                  38
Protein                                                                                                                      92
Phenotype                                                                                                                    62
Cluster # 2 (green) = 123 items
Antifolate drug resistance                                                                                                   25
dhfr gene                                                                                                                     18
pfdhps gene                                                                                                                  20
Pyrimethamine   resistance                                                                                                   38
pfmdr1  gene                                                                                                                 35
Cluster # 3 (blue) = 89 items
Sub-Saharan  Africa                                                                                                          23
Thai-Myanmar    border                                                                                                        10
Asia                                                                                                                          81
Visit Information:
Chief Complaint:   N/A
Vital Signs:
Wt: 151.2lbs  Ht:          BP: 80        HR:           RR:           Temp:
Verify Allergies: Anaphylaxis Allergic Reactions
Meds  and Orders:
FROM:      Clark Hughes
DATE:      May 20, 2020
100,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                           86,765                                         Osteopathic
80,000                                                                                                                                                                                 70,480                                                                                 American
60,000                                                                                                                                                          56,512                                                                                                        ©
50,000
40,000                                                          29,461                          36,999
10,000
1985                           1990                            1995                            2000                            2005                            2010                            2014                                        from
Department Contact:                                        Campus Phone Number:
Interdepartmental Invoice #
Near   term                                      Midpoint           Contribution      by                   Near  term                                      Midpoint            Contribution      by
Strike              Option   Type               Price                   Strike                            Strike              Option    Type               Price                  Strike
1375                     Put                   0.125              0.0000003306                            1325                     Put                     0.15              0.0000032041
1380                     Put                    0.15              0.0000003938                            1350                     Put                     0.15              0.0000020577
.                       .                       .                       .                                  .                       .                       .                       .
1950                     Put                   18.25              0.0000239979                            1950                     Put                     21.6              0.0000284031
1955                     Put                   19.75              0.0000258376                            1955                     Put                     23.2              0.0000303512
1960                                           22.775              0.0000296432                            1960                                            26.1              0.0000339711
1970                    Call                    18.1              0.0000233198                            1970                     Call                    21.1              0.0000271851
2095                    Call                     0.2              0.0000002278                            2125                     Call                    0.1               0.0000005536
2100                    Call                     0.1              0.0000003401                            2150                     Call                    0.1               0.0000008113
2       KK      1                                                                                         2          ii e R 2
1  i                                                                                                     2       KK
Name    of Passenger:
NAME:
S.S. #:                                CLASS  OF:
TELEPHONE   NUMBER:  (     )
DOLLAR  AMOUNT   REQUESTED:   $
SINISTRO    Nº                          8357                              DATA    DO  SINISTRO          09/09/10               RAMO         Itau Unibanco
BEM   SINISTRADO                    -                                     APÓLICE                        SUR716.003
Nome             Andre    Jakurski
Bairro                                                          CEP               30112-010
Cidade           Belo Horizonte                                 UF                MG
Telefone       +55  98 99608-4062                               E-mail            ajakurski@jgp.com.br
Itau Unibanco                                             8532
770.683.2033
- CPF  e cópia do comprovante   de endereço.
(  ) Até R$  100.000,00     (  ) De R$  100.000,01  a R$ 300.000,00       ( ) De R$  300.000,01  a R$  500.000,00
(   ) De R$ 500.000,01   a R$ 800.000,00    (  ) De R$ 800.000,01  a R$  1.000.000,00    ( ) Acima  de R$  1.000.000,01
(  ) Não desejo informar
(  ) Até R$ 3.000,00      (  ) De R$  3.000,01  a R$ 5.000,00      (  ) De R$  5.000,01 a R$  10.000,00
(  ) Acima  de R$  10.000,01     ( ) Não  possuo  renda    (  ) Não desejo  informar
* Pessoas   Politicamente   Expostas    (PEP)  – São  pessoas   que  desempenham     ou  tenham  desempenhado     nos  últimos cinco
Assinatura                                                                                         Data              09/09/10
Conforme   determina  a Circular SUSEP    445/12, a entrega  deste formulário preenchido   é obrigatória no processo  de regulação
de sinistro e não implica no  pagamento   de indenização  pela  Seguradora,  o qual poderá  ser realizado somente   após  a análise
TODOS    OS  CAMPOS     DO  FORMULÁRIO      SÃO   DE  PREENCHIMENTO        OBRIGATÓRIO
TABLE       OF   CONTENTS                                                                                                                                               2
TOTAL       HEALTHCARE              SPENDING          FOR     CANCER          PATIENTS                                                                              4
Cumulative        Total    Health    Spending       and    OOP     Cost                                                                                    7
The    Cyclical     Nature     of Patient     Out-of-Pocket        Costs                                                                                   9
Patient     Out-of-Pocket        by   Service     Category                                                                                                11
Out-of-Network          Utilization     and   Cost    Sharing                                                                                             12
DATA                                                                                                                                                               16
METHODOLOGY                                                                                                                                                        16
Chemotherapy,           Chemotherapy           Administration,        and    Related     Drugs                                                            18
Other     Drugs                                                                                                                                           18
Professional        and   Other     Services      Excluding      Chemo       and   Rad    Therapy                                                         18
Hospital      Inpatient                                                                                                                                   18
Facility    Services,     Other     Than     Inpatient,    Excluding       Professional,       Chemo       and   Rad    Therapy                           18
Radiation       Therapy                                                                                                                                   19
30120-060                              Horizonte                                       MG                                   Brazil
(75)    2082-1292                                  44.198.849.0                                          0    8   3    8    4   4    9    0   4    -   2    2
001  - Banco   do   Brasil                           -                                                                         -
Número  da conta                            Tipo de conta                             Titularidade
614.925-0                                         Corrente           Poupança                1° Titular        2° Titular         3° Titular        4° Titular
Finalidade
37004  - Manutenção de residentes (apenas para terceiros)                     67500  - Disponibilidade no exterior (remessa para a própria conta)
MOD.11/10     Agência
Nome   do beneficiário    Informe seu  nome  completo, sem  abreviações
Endereço                  Informe seu  endereço residencial
CEP/Código   Postal       Informe o código de endereçamento   postal da sua residência
Cidade                    Informe o nome  da cidade  onde reside
Estado                    Informe a unidade  da federação onde  reside
País                      Informe o país onde  reside
Telefone                  Informe o código DDD   e o número do  telefone para contato
RG/Identidade             Informe o número  e órgão emissor  do documento  de identidade
CPF                       Informe o número  da sua  inscrição no Cadastro de Pessoas Físicas da Secretaria da Receita Federal
Nome   da agência         Informe o nome  da agência  onde possui conta
Número   da conta         Informe o número  da conta, inclusive o dígito verificador
Corrente: se for conta Corrente;
Titularidade              Informe a ordem  de cadastramento  do seu  nome  na sua conta:
1o Titular: - se conta individual; ou
2o Titular: - para conta conjunta, se segundo titular;
4o Titular: - para conta conjunta, se quarto titular.
Finalidade                Informe o código que melhor representa a finalidade (motivo) do recebimento das ordens de pagamento:
67500  - Depósitos e disponibilidades - Disponibilidade no exterior
Remetente                 Informe o nome  do remetente,  exatamente  como  informado na ordem  de pagamento
Mesh       Mesh     Mesh
#1
#2
#3
#7
Check  if you are a military:  spouse  dependent    Name  of military spouse/parent: Robert Comi
  Other  Veteran
  ID Viewed  by Registrar’s Office Staff                  Staff Member  Signature:
I am aware  that if I am terminated or resign from the District, I will have a maximum  of 7 days to retrieve content from my District
Difiore                               Matthew
February  7-8, 2001                                           Savannah,  Georgia
!!! URGENT…      INDUSTRY      RESOLUTION       REQUIRED      !!!
Company
417  Franklin St                                Denver                     CO
Address                                         City                       State/Providence
80218                                      United States
Zip/Country Code                          Country
(616)458-9640                                   bdiebold@pinellas-park.com
Fax #                                           Email Address
Pre-Registration  Fee  (before January   29, 2001)    US  $450
Registration  Fee (after January  29, 2001)           US  $475
?American  Express          ?  MasterCard            ?  Visa            ?  Check  (payable to ATIS)
Credit Card No. 5466307368374711                                      Expiration Date 08/05/2024
Please  send  registration & payment   to:   Alliance for Telecommunications  Industry Solutions (ATIS)
Washington,  DC  20005  USA
Attention: Megan   Hayes, Phone:  (202) 662-8653
Or fax this information to: (202) 393-5481 (secure fax)
Fee  Policy:                                                                                                 her  registration during the seven  (7) seven day  period preceding   the start of the meeting,
the participant may  only transfer the fee paid  to an unregistered  participant from the same
register is $450.  After January  29, 2001  the meeting  fee will be $475.  All meeting
material is prepared  in advance  for those who   pre-register and may  be  picked up  at the                Address   cancellation notifications to: ATIS, 1200  G Street NW,   Suite 500, Washington    DC
registration desk.                                                                                           20005   Attention: Megan   Hayes,  Fax  # (202) 393-5481,   Phone  (202)  662-8653
to qualified persons  with disabilities in accordance  with the Americans   with Disabilities
A registered  participant may  either (i) receive a refund of the fee paid, minus a fifteen                  Act.  If you need special  accommodations    to fully participate, please provide a written
dollar ($15.00) processing  fee, if ATIS is notified in writing of the cancellation prior to                 description  and attach.
seven  (7) calendar  days from  the start of the meeting. If a participant must cancel  his or
2012-2014:   Gilead reported
sofosbuvir         (Sovaldi)                                        R&D  costs for sofosbuvir-
Nov  2013: Gilead's executives  set price at
based  regimens  as US$  880.3
Jul 2011: Gilead's consultant Barclay                                                                 course, but was  later changed  to $28 000 per
assumed   a "price per cure" of USS.                            estimated   US$ 216.1  million        bottle because  each  bottle contains 28
for final R&D)
80 000 through  benchmarking    with                                                                  tablets, with anticipated discounts  e.g. 50%
“convenience   bump"  by 8%  when
Feb—Jul 2013: Gilead assessed
an all-oral, single tablet came to
FDA approved
Pharmasset   at US$ 11.2                amd   key opinion leaders and     Sovaldi             reported  first year sales result
billion                                 payers’ opinions                                      for Sovaldi of US$ 12.4 billion
:
2008-2011                |  2012                                       2013                                       2014      2014-2015
Jul 2013: Gilead  considered the  pros and cons  of
2008-2011:   Pharmasset   spent         Nov  2012: Gilead's executive
pricing scenarios ranging from  US$ 50 000  to USS.
115 000 and  effects on payers, physicians and
PSI-7977  (subsiquently                 $65k" and  25%  lower price in               |
sofosbuvir)                                                    Europe
May  2013: Gilead’s consultant  IMS         IMS noted  that sofosbuvir would  benefit from
benchmark   prices per course      90 payers showing   that expenditure  on   subsequently   compel  payers  to choose a single
US$  72 000 but did not            conditions, multiple scle rosis,
realistic
Rosemeire       Lauretti
RUA                                                                       medicamento
E-mail: rose@amazoniaeletronorte.com.br                        Telefone: (    ) 65-  3624-1626
(    ) Conta Corrente
FORMULÁRIO             DE    SOLICITAÇÃO             DE    REEMBOLSO              SEGUROS          SAÚDE
Número da Carteirinha                                                                       E-mail
704    2012    0546     8582                                                                chaddad@kpx.com.br
Empresa S.A.                                                                                Telefone Celular com DDD
JBS
Student  Information
Last Name                                                       First Name
SEAS  Major                                                     2nd Maj / Minor
Internship   Information
Company   Name
Company   Division or
For Advising Office Use Only                                                                                                           Submit  forms  to:
Science &  Engineering Hall, Suite 2500
Pessoais
Nome                 Completo                                                                                                      Grau              de        Parentesco                                            %       de         Participação
Ana                  Cristina                            Reif                 de            Paula                                                                                                                                                                              25                                                                                 -
Thomas                                 Leitz                                                                                                                                                  irmã                                                                             20                                                                                 154414.006.581/98-40
nº
SUSEP
Processo
Vida
Nome                Arthur                     Pesquisa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Processo
Visa                 Master Card                Discover        Amex
Account Number:      01 2320  105 1 006
Expiration Date:     03-03-2018
Date:                03-03-2020
Zip Code:       20170
V-code:                        (On the back side of the card, in the signature block, there
786             are some  numbers.  The  “last three digits” are the v-code.
• Positively identify efflorescence (see Technical  Note 23)          • Isolate exterior brick wythe with an air space
shooting  list and correct the causes before attempting               from the backing  with a dampproof   coating
removal
• Design  and  construct brickwork  to maximize  water  pen-          Construction     Practices
etration resistance                                                 • Store masonry   materials off the ground  and cover  with
• Consider  materials that contain fewer  soluble salts                 waterproof  materials to protect them  from groundwater
tion
Enrollment  Date                                 Time                          Degree:    BA  □     BME   □    BM   □
Instrument / Voice                                             Applied  Instructor
Applied lesson level for Fall 2016:  FR  □      SO  □     JR  □       SR  □      NO  LESSONS    □
Credit hours of applied lessons ( check degree plan): 2 □ 3 □       4 □
Are you completing  one of the following for Fall 2016 ( check degree plan)? YES □  NO  □
ATIVO                       APOSENTADO                       PENSIONISTA
SOLICITAÇÃO:
CLASS:    8th
BSI TEACHER:     Lorin Kornijtschuk
CLASS:    Math
PERIOD:    Summer 2018
BSI TEACHER:     Dean Scharmen
DAYS   OF WEEK:     02
Pride                        Tradition                     excellence
It Takes More To Be A Bulldog
CLASS:    8th
PERIOD:    Summer 2018
BSI TEACHER:     Dean Scharmen
DAYS   OF WEEK:     02
Pride                        Tradition                     excellence
It Takes More To Be A Bulldog
1-Nome     do  Aluno    juan   zeballos
Nascimento       /      /            RG   49.050.809.1                       CPF
Endereço:          Av.   Agua    Verde,     2140     - 223    - Agua     Verde                         Nº   2140    - 223
2-  Nome    do responsável     Eduardo       Kugelmas
Grau  de  Parentesco      Pai (   )    Mae   (   )     Outros    -
RG    30.802.960.4                    e  CPF    03087750409                        Cel.  +55    98   98471-5918
Violão  (  )                                 Flauta Doce (  )
Tarde
3-  turma   das    14:00 as 14:50 hrs        4- turma   das    15:00 as 15:50 hrs
Violão(   )                                   Flauta Doce (  )
Patricia White                                                                      10/05/2019
By signing below, I acknowledge that I have read and agree to abide by the Social Media Policy.
William  Pickrum                                                               10/05/2019
Date Received:
Date Completed:
FROM:    Aurea Feest                                                     DATE:      04-03-2020
Contact Name:        Aurea   Feest                      Tel #:    586 443 7340 x121  Email:     aurea.feest@hotmail.com
Company/Event   Name:                  Amazon                                     Event Date:       WEPTAC    2016
RESERVATION       INFORMATION                           # of Rooms:          4
Arrival Date:             04-03-2020                    Departure Date:         07-03-2020
City:            Wheatland                               State:  CA
*Email  Address  (up to 45 characters):
GRE   General  Test                                          GRE   Subject Test
(continue to next page)
AMOUNT
Total     Amount         Enclosed         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      $
RAI             No.  of words        No.  of sentences        No. of paragraphs         Sentences/paragraph          Institutional location
BESP1           149                  5                        2                         2.5                          Brazil
BESP2           536                  16                       8                         2.0                          Brazil
BESP3           156                  5                        2                         2.5                          Brazil
BESP5           928                  30                       7                         4.3                          Brazil
BESP6           215                  5                        2                         2.5                          Brazil
BESP7           502                  12                       5                         2.4                          Brazil
BESP8           161                  7                        3                         2.3                          Brazil
BESP9           295                  9                        4                         2.3                          Brazil
BESP10          728                  17                       4                         4.3                          Brazil
Average         415.9                12                       4.2                       2.9
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Route # Assigned
AM  Pickup Time:                   AM  Pick-up Location:
PM  Pickup Time:                   PM  Drop-off Location:
ENF./LEITO: Michael Edgar Perlman DN: 08 / 08 / 2017       IDADE: 48                    DATA:  08   / 08  / 2017
INFORMAÇÕES     AO  PACIENTE:
(cid:1) EXAMES RADIOGRÁFICOS NÃO DEVEM SER REALIZADOS DURANTE   A GESTAÇÃO, A NÃO  SER DEPOIS DE PONDERADOS   OS  RISCOS E
BENEFÍCIOS, DEVIDO À POSSIBILIDADE DE RISCOS MALÉFICOS PARA O FETO.
(cid:1) ESTOU CIENTE DE ESTAR GRÁVIDA.
(cid:1) SE O EXAME FOR AUTORIZADO, SERÁ USADO  VESTIMENTA  DE PROTEÇÃO   NA REGIÃO  ABDOMINO­  PÉLVICA E A RADIAÇÃO  SERÁ
LIMITADA O MÁXIMO  POSSÍVEL À ÁREA DE INTERESSE.
(cid:1) AUTORIZO A REALIZAÇÃO DO EXAME.
Health Care  Rights Under   the U.S. Constitution                                                    1
Explicit Rights in the U.S. Constitution                                                         1
Equal  Protection: Wealth  as a “Suspect Class”                                              4
Exception:  Under  Government    Control                                                     5
Federal Power   to Provide for and Fund  Health Care  Programs                                       6
The  Taxing and  Spending  Power                                                                 7
The  Individual Mandate   to Purchase Health  Insurance Under   the Patient Protection
Mandate                                                                                   10
State Attempts  to “Nullify” or “Opt Out”  of Federal Health  Care Reform
Requirements                                                                              11
State Constitutions and  the Provision of Health Care  Services                                     12
Paciente:  Thomas   Leitz
Responsável    legal pelo(a) paciente:  juan zeballos
Olho:  (  ) Direito (  ) Esquerdo  (   ) Ambos  os  olhos  Tipo  de Anestesia:   (  ) Local (   ) Geral
Passo  Fundo  12   / 12   /          Ass. Paciente:
Médico   responsável:   Luiz F. C da Silva
Attachment     A  - LCD/LCA     Availability   Grid
Rituximab     (Rituxan®  )
(A52452)   Coverage  of, for Label MAC  Part A & B   Inc.                             RI, WI, VT
and Off-Label Uses
L35026    Rituximab  (Rituxan® ) A and B MAC        Palmetto GBA                     AL, GA,  NC, SC, TN, VA,  WV
(A56380)
J9312, J9999, Q5115
End  of Attachment  A
Dados   Pessoais
Data  de Nascimento:     07/07/1993       Sexo:  Masculino  (  )   Feminino   (   )
-
Instituição:        Avenues   São  Paulo
Endereço:    Estrada  de Adrianópolis, 1317  - Vila Nossa Sra. da  Conceicao
Cidade:     Nova   Iguacu     Estado:        RJ            CEP:   26090-005
PROTOCOLO
à Unidade  Hospital da Mulher  Maria  Luzia Costa  dos Santos e realizou inscrição para
número  de Protocolo  1796036
Comissão
Credit Card Type:             Visa         Mastercard       Discover        AmEx
Credit Card Number:      4647963840411516
Invoice(s) paid: $5000
Credit Card Type:             Visa         Mastercard       Discover        AmEx
Expiration Date:         08/21
Amount  to Charge:  $  5000            (USD)           Customer  # 763023
Invoice(s) paid: $5000
Intervention       Intervention     Control Events      Control group
Denominators:
person-years
No. deaths from all
-cause mortality*
No. deaths from
cancer recurrence*
No. with a second
primary cancer
Examples
obsessive  compulsive  disorder
Schizophrenia,  schizoaffective disorder
Alzheimer   disease, other dementias
NOME  DO  CLIENTE ATENDIDO: Benjamim  Cordeiro Costa Junior
CÓDIGO  DO CLIENTE ATENDIDO:                                  CPF: 091.033.093-04
TELEFONE  (CELULAR): 92- 3621-0813
E-MAIL: benjamim.junior@eletrobrasamazonas.com
DATA  DA SOLICITAÇÃO:  08   / 02  / 2019
Detalhamento  do ocorrido (justificando o motivo do atendimento particular):
NOME  DO TITULAR OU RESPONSÁVEL (SE MENOR) CPF: 091.033.093-04
NOME  DO BANCO: Banco Bradesco     Nº DO BANCO  2853       AGÊNCIA: 3383
CONTA: 17077-9                                       CORRENTE      POUPANÇA
VALOR TOTAL SOLICITADO:  $50000
CURSO:         (    ) ADMINISTRAÇÃO                     (   ) SEGURANÇA           DO    TRABALHO                  (   ) SERVIÇOS        PÚBLICOS
(   ) ALIMENTOS            (   ) INFORMÁTICA            (   ) AGROINDÚSTRIA                (   ) Curso     FIC
ANO    DE   ENTRADA:          2015                   TURNO:       (   ) MANHÃ          (    )TARDE         (   )NOITE
FONE:        (98)   98402-1128
> Volatility as a tradable asset: VIX Futures  & Options                                                                        3
> Beyond   the VIX Index                                                                                                        4
> Historical Prices: The  VIX Index and  Other  Volatility Indexes                                                              4
> The  VIX Index Calculation:  Step-by-Step                                                                                     4
>  Getting Started                                                                                                          5
>  Step 1: Select the options  to be used  in the VIX Index calculation                                                     6
>  Step 2: Calculate volatility for both near-term  and  next-term  options                                                 8
> VIX Index  Filtering Algorithm                                                                                                10
> The  Calculation  of the Final Settlement  Value  for VIX Derivatives                                                         10
> Appendix   1: Complete   SPX  Option  Data Used  in Sample   VIX Index Calculation                                            13
> Appendix   2: Individual Contributions                                                                                        17
Focus   topic, objectives and conclusions are not connected
Methodological    unclear and  misleading argumentation;
steps  weak  methodology   or results
Style  unclear, unfocused  and incoherent  text
Data Quality    flawed design; insignificant sample number;  preliminary findings only
Signature:                                                     Title:  Manager
Print Name:   Joseph   Correa                                  Date:                        02-05-20
Company    Name:   Amazon
Cardholder   Signature:
Expiration   Date    04/23 /                448
Billing Address  for this Credit Card (include Zip  Code)
7901 W 52nd Ave #205,Arvada, CO 80002, USA
Print_Name:    Giuseppina Dicki    Signature:
Print_Name:                        Signature:
Print_Name:                        Signature:
Student  Information
Peluso                           Lorraine                7952186
750   Woodcrest      Dr                                  (231)832-5521
Address                                                 Telephone
Gaylord,   MI,  49735
City, State, ZIP/Postal Code
Perry                        Timothy               tperry@largo.com
Last Name                   First Name             Email Address
Address City, State, ZIP/Postal Code               Telephone
Attorney’s  Name
Firm  Name
Street
City, State, Zip
Dear                                       :
O nome  do seu pai: Rafael Barbastefano
O nome  da sua mãe: Monica  Herz
Identidade: 0343407                              CPF: 098237304-07
Seu aniversário: 04/03/1995                      Estado civil: Solteiro
SEUS  DADOS    PROFISSIONAIS
É sócio do SINDICATO:              (   ) SIM R$60,00/Mês*            (   ) NÃO  R$75,00/Mês
Você  usa uma  língua estrangeira profissionalmente? Qual?   Inglês
Você  já estudou alguma  língua estrangeira? (    ) Sim    (   ) Não
Qual: Inglês                                Onde: Avenues  São  Paulo
Cluster number                Items (number    of country coauthorships)
Belgium   (31), Burkina Faso  (94), Cameroon   (53), Denmark    (61), Ethiopia (47), France (182), Gambia   (67),
Cluster # 1 (red)
21 items                      Ghana   (79), Italy (29), Kenya (112), Madagascar  (45), Malawi   (47), Mali (76), Netherlands  (58), Nigeria (80),
Senegal  (42), South Africa  (47), Sudan  (69), Tanzania  (121), Uganda  (63), United  Kingdom   (518).
13 items                      Portugal  (77), Spain (27), Sweden  (125), USA   (529), Yemen  (10).
Cluster # 4
(yellowish  green)            Australia (197), Canada   (47), Colombia   (15), Germany   (109), India (62), Indonesia (86), Israel (16).
7 items
Nome:   Julio Milko
Citação  Bibliográfica:
E-mail: milko_27@yahoo.com
Identificação do Documento
Título do Trabalho:    Engenheiro    elétrico
Número   de  páginas: 200
Possui  anexos:  sim  (  )  não ( )
Inclui Bibliografia: Sim (  )   Não  ( )
Billing Address 217 Merritt Rd                     Phone  Number  (916)914-6256
City, State, Zip code Los Altos CA 94022  USA       Email mreich@pinellas-park.com
Name  on Card Marty  Reich
Zip code 94022
Nome    do  estudante
Thomas     Leitz
Curso:                    Ciência  da  Computação       101                 Turno:   ( ) manhã   ( ) tarde  ( ) noite
para  renovação:          ( ) Moradia                                     (  ) transporte     II ( )
( ) Material Didático                                               III ( )
DOCUMENTOS        OBRIGATÓRIOS:
1     Ficha de inscrição devidamente preenchida
2     Comprovante   de renda atualizado DO ESTUDANTE      E DOS   FAMILIARES
3     Declaração de situação socioeconômica
4     Original do histórico escolar atualizado
5     Comprovante   de residência atualizado
6     Copia de dados bancários atualizado
2018                          California                       e-fle             Signature                        Authorization                                 for       Individuals                                               8879
Your   name                                                                                                                                                                                          Your   SSN     or  ITIN
Spouse’s/RDP’s          name                                                                                                                                                                        Spouse’s/RDP’s           SSN    or  ITIN
Part       I    Tax    Return     Information         (whole      dollars     only)
1     California      Adjusted      Gross      Income.      See    instructions        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
2     Amount       You    Owe.     See    instructions         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
3     Refund      or  No    Amount       Due.    See    instructions         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Part       II     Taxpayer       Declaration         and    Signature        Authorization         (Be    sure    you   obtain     and    keep    a  copy     of  your    return.)
Applicant      Alan                                        Locke
Social Security # 253  -  982   - 905
mo         day        year
GREENWOOD,                                 AR,       72936
city                                                 state       zip
How   long?      2 year
First                    MI          Last
Date of birth      03 /  02      / 1992
city                                                 state       zip
Applicant                                                Date
Andrew  Zolli                                          03-05-2019
11
Lotação:  Angra     dos    Reis                                 Matrícula: 493728561                                       Data:   05  / 03    /
Plano:     PMO-E   - Plano  Médico  Odontológico   Estendido
PM  - Plano Médico (cid:28) PM-E - Plano Médico Estendido (cid:28) PMO - Plano Médico Odontológico (cid:28) PMO-E - Plano Médico Odontológico Estendido (cid:28)
Usuário:  Ana    Cristina     Reif    de   Paula
Total de  Recibos  Apresentados   R$:  2000                     Banco:   Citibank Brasil.  Ag: M&C Saatchi F & QLocated - Conta no Brasil Corrente: 22109-0 -
05/03/2011
/    /       Rs  2000             725                    40                  Implantologia                   1
05/03/2011 / /   Rs  2000             725                    40                  Implantologia                   1
/    /
NOME   DO ALUNO:
A n  d  r  e     D  e b  a  r  s
M   T   N  69        M   F  -                        Engenheira
RG:    2  7  4   0  0  1   2  2  -  6               Data de Nascimento:
Naturalidade: -                                    Nacionalidade:   BRASILEIRO
Nº       6  0 0                 Bairro:       I  m  b  u  i
Cidade: S a  l  v a  d o  r                                        CEP:  4  1  7 2  0  - 2  0  0
Escolaridade: Fundamental  ( ) Médio ( ) Superior ( ) E-mail: debars@hotmail.com
Aceita receber informações da EMVL  pelo e-mail informado no campo  acima?  Sim ( ) Não ( )
Telefone:  9  8  - 9  9  1  9  7  7  4  3  7  Celular:          -
Nome  do pai:   G  e  r a  l d  o    C  o  e n              Profissão: Engenheiro
Nome  da mãe:   M  o n  i  c a     H e  r  z                Profissão: Médica
NOME   DO ALUNO:
A n  d  r  e     D  e b  a  r  s
3X4
TURNO      IDADE    SEXO        INSTRUMENTO              PROFISSÃO
M   T   N  69        M   F  -                        Engenheira
CPF:  0  2   9  0  9   4  2   6  4  -   0  8     28     04     1988
Nº       6  0 0                 Bairro:       I  m  b  u  i
Cidade: S a  l  v a  d o  r                                        CEP:  4  1  7 2  0  - 2  0  0
Telefone:  9  8  - 9  9  1  9  7  7  4  3  7  Celular:          -
Assinatura do candidato ou responsável
COMPROVANTE       DE   INSCRIÇÃO
2    0     1    6    1    1     0
Instrumento pretendido:
A   n  d  r   e      D  e  b   a  r   s
Name  of Student                                          Date of Birth
Home  Address                                             Telephone Number
School Attending                                          Election Date
Student: Marty Reich                           Student ID Number: 126513
Course: DLD                                    Course Reference Number: 316
Instructor: Raymond Boler                      Semester & Year Taken: 4th
To be completed by the Instructor
Reason  for incomplete grade:  illnrss
If student does not produce all missing work by  12/4/2020             (date),  the following final grade
will be entered on the student record :
(date), then the above course grade of     (grade) will be recorded on my official transcript.
Student’s Signature:                                               Date:
Morgan    Larkin                                            Blue  group
Participant Name (printed)                                    Group Name   & Session Dates
Candelaria    Larkin                                         $5000
Expiration Date (MM/YY)                                      Phone  Number
Note
different        $25,000
t
o
M
P
m  $8,000
M  $7,000
e
P  $6,000
n g                                           Allowed Per
d                                             PatientPer
e  $4,000                                     Month for
S  $3,000                                     Diabetics
l                                             2014
a
$0
-11    -9    -7     -5    -3    -1     1     3      5     7     9     11    13     15    17    19    21     23    25    27     29    31    33     35
I.     INTRODUCTION                                                                   1
III.   OVERVIEW     OF  FDA  RISK  ASSESSMENT—PRE-        AND  POSTMARKET             3
A.   Premarket Risk Assessment                                                      3
B.   Postmarket Risk Assessment                                                     5
APPROPRIATE     FOR   DISTRIBUTION     TO  HEALTH    CARE   PROFESSIONALS
AND  HEALTH    CARE   ENTITIES                                                 6
Rafael    Barbastefano
Email:  barbastefano@gmail.com
Data  de  nascimento:    19/03/1995                             Telefone:  +55   98   98112-7250
NOME  COMPLETO   *
ENTIDADE/ÓRGÃO/ASSOCIAÇÃO/UNIVERSIDADE
TELEFONE:
EMAIL:
MANIFESTAÇÕES:
Nome:                                        Andre   Debars
Código    do  Curso*:                        DS-101
Nome    do  Curso**:                         Estruturas     de  dados
( ) Lato  Sensu   - Especialização
CPF:                                         02909426408
Integralidade***:                            Em    processo
Turno:                                       Manhã
Ingressante     Cotista?                     ( ) Sim
Possui   deficiência?                        ( ) Sim
( ) Não
Data   de  Nascimento:                       28/04/1988
NÚMERO    DE  BENEFICIÁRIO     DA CPAS      4644932
NOME   COMPLETO       Wagner        Gentil
DOMICÍLIO   PROFISSIONAL        Adriano      Ferreira      de   Faria
LOCALIDADE     Barueri,   Brasil  COD.POST.  0 | 6 | 4 | 6 | 0 |-| - 0 | 4 | 0 | TELEFONE 65- 3316-5342  TELEMÓVEL      91-  3216-1359
2.1. NOME  COMPLETO            Wagner  Gentil
2.2. NA QUALIDADE   DE:  CÔNJUGE                  FILHO  MENOR
3.1. DOENÇA DO PRÓPRIO BENEFICIÁRIO                           3.2. DOENÇA DO CÔNJUGE DO BENEFICIÁRIO
3.3. DOENÇA DOS FILHOS MENORES DO BENEFICIÁRIO                3.4. MATERNIDADE DA PRÓPRIA BENEFICIÁRIA
IBAN: | B | R | 9 | 7 | 0 0 | 3 | 6 | 0 | 3 | 0 | 5 | 0 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 9 | 7 9 | 5 | 4 | 9 | 3 | P | 1 | |
SWIFT  BIC: |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
Name:   Marcos Jacobs                NSU  ID/SSN: 212-35-3331
Authorization
Visa (cid:133)            MasterCard   (cid:133)           American  Express (cid:133)
Signature:
Print to complete  and send  to the NSU  Office of the University Bursar:
Student Accounts
P.O. Box 290060
Figure    12. Treatment       Patterns    (%)  for  Nonseminomatous            Testicular    Germ     Cell Tumors     by   Stage,   2009-2013
70                                                                           67
60                                                                                                                            Surgery alone
Percent                                                                                                                           Surgery + RPLND
40
30
Chemo and/or RT
20                                                                                          18                                No surgery, RT, or chemo
11
<1      <1                                 1                      1
Rafael   Barbastefano                                                               63562782420
Pós-Graduação                                              Nova  Friburgo
Note: Funds can be deposited into one account or split between accounts as a set percent or dollar amount.
Account  type                Checking     Savings                 State Acct Opened
Account  number
ABA  Routing Number
Deposit Amount                        %  OR  $                (Flat Amount)  OR      Remaining
Account  type                Checking     Savings                 State Acct Opened
Account  number
ABA  Routing Number
Deposit Amount                        %  OR  $                (Flat Amount)  OR      Remaining
Account  number
Deposit Amount                        %  OR  $                (Flat Amount)  OR      Remaining
First Name                                 Middle Name                               Last Name
Profissional Solicitante                                           Registro no Conselho
Mauricio    Machado                                         registro legal
700  0092  5970  6801                                                             03-03-1994
Nome  Completo*
Ana  Cristina Reif  de Paula
Nome  da Mãe*
Maria  Ana
Raça                              Sexo*                   UF de Nascimento*                 Naturalidade*
Preto                                      MASCULINO                  RJ                                   brasileiaro
Identidade                                                   Certidão de Nascimento
88754                  GOVERNO          RJ        03-03-2020          88755                  NA                   03-03-2020
Número*                                               Bairro*                                                CEP*
U F*                                                Cidade*                                              Telefone
Data                            Hora                    Código de Solicitação               Nº da Chave
patterns = List of patterns for Semantic Network relationships
patternMatches  =  longestStringMatch(s,patterns)
}
return patternMatches
Winnacunnet    High School
   Facebook            Twitter        Instagram            Other:
Last Name      Ostolaza                                         First Name     Jolene
SEAS  Major    Electronics                                      2nd Maj / Minor                Networking
Internship  Information
Company   Division or Finance
Required    Signature
Supervisor Signature                                                                 Last Name   Borgman                 Date  12/05/2019
For Advising Office Use Only                                                                                                           Submit  forms  to:
Approved   by  Faculty  Advisor:  Signature                                                                                      seasadvising@gwu.edu
Martin Leiser
Manager
TITLE
AT  &  T
406  Calle Macho
ADDRESS
San  Clemente                                   CA                  92673
CITY                                            STATE              ZIP
(231)947-6921                           (269)763-9407
PHONE                                  FAX
mleiser@largo.com
Conference   Fees:         SWANA/MRN     Member*                Non-Member
Full Conference                           $195                    $235      $ 195
Thursday  Only                            $135                    $155      $
Less SWANA-MA     Special ($45 Deduction  per SWANA    Member)              $
Total Due       $ 195
Payment:           Check   (Payable  to MRN)          MasterCard/Visa           Amex
Cardholder:   Martin  Leiser                                         CSV   #: 439
Signature:
ADDRESS
-                                                    -                    -
CITY                                                STATE                 ZIP
100                                                                                                                                                Local tumor excision/
destruction
destruction + chemo and/or RT
Proctectomy/proctocolectomy
60                                                                                                                                                alone
Percent                                                                                                                                                + chemo  and/or RT
40
29                28                                                                                      31
20                                                                 14          13                                                14
4                 4     3              1     2                      2             <1     1     4
0
Stage  I                                 Stage II and III                               Stage  IV
Study                   Medication                Study  Design             Sample    Size              Control  (Chemo    therapy  alone)    Results
Chen    YZ,   Li ZD,    Sheng-mai,       Gu-jin   Randomized       control  n=61                        Navelbine  plus  cisplatin            48.5%   survival rate compared   to
Lin H, Li DR  [16]      Shenqi-Fuzheng            Randomized       control  n=232                       Navelbine     plus    cisplatin   or  Improved     quality  of   life* in
Xu    ZY,   Jin   CJ,   Kangliuzeng        xiao,  Randomized       control  n=121                       Navelbine  plus  cisplatin            Improved    quality of life** and a
Zhou    CC,    Wang     Feiyanning                study                                                                                       trend  toward  prolonged   survival
ZQ,  Zhou  WD,  et al.                                                                                                                        time  in experimental  arm
[17]
Tian JH,  Liu LS, Shi   Fiji Recipe               Randomized       control  n=70                        Vinorelbine    plus   cisplatin   or  Improved     quality  of   life* in
Yamamoto           K,   Shakuyaku-kanzo-to        Randomized       control  n=10                        Pacltitaxel plus carboplatin          Decreased     adverse   effects  of
Hoshiai  H,  Noda   K                             study                                                                                       chemotherapy-    induced  myalgia
Mori  K,   Kondo   T,   Hangeshash    in-to       Randomized       control  n=44                        Cisplatin plus irinotecan             Decreased     adverse   effects  of
Kamiyama    Y,  Kano                              study                                                                                       chemotherapy-    induced  diarrhea
Y, Tominaga   K  [20]
*As assessed   by quality of life scale of European Organization  for Research   on treatment  of Cancer
**As assessed   by the Karnofsky  score
Vendor
Address:
Insurance
Primary insurance provider:                            Policy number:
Prescribing  Physician
Prescribing physician name:
Individual Contributions  (Cont.)                                                    Individual Contributions  (Cont.)
Near  term                      Midpoint                    Contribution             Near  term                      Midpoint                    Contribution
Strike      Option  Type        Price         Delta-K        by Strike               Strike      Option  Type        Price         Delta-K        by Strike
1620            Put            0.625            5         0.0000011908               1720            Put            1.800            5         0.0000030423
1625            Put            0.675            5         0.0000012781               1725            Put            1.850            5         0.0000031087
1630            Put            0.675            5         0.0000012703               1730            Put            1.925            5         0.0000032160
1635            Put            0.725            5         0.0000013561               1735            Put            2.000            5         0.0000033221
1640            Put            0.725            5         0.0000013478               1740            Put            2.100            5         0.0000034682
1645            Put            0.775            5         0.0000014320               1745            Put            2.175            5         0.0000035715
1650            Put            0.675            5         0.0000012397               1750            Put            2.275            5         0.0000037144
1655            Put            0.825            5         0.0000015060               1755            Put            2.375            5         0.0000038556
1660            Put            0.825            5         0.0000014970               1760            Put            2.475            5         0.0000039951
1665            Put            0.875            5         0.0000015782               1765            Put            2.575            5         0.0000041330
1670            Put            0.875            5         0.0000015688               1770            Put            2.725            5         0.0000043491
1675            Put            0.925            5         0.0000016485               1775            Put            2.825            5         0.0000044834
1680            Put            0.975            5         0.0000017273               1780            Put            3.000            5         0.0000047344
1685            Put            1.025            5         0.0000018051               1785            Put            3.100            5         0.0000048648
1690            Put            1.025            5         0.0000017944               1790            Put            3.250            5         0.0000050718
1695            Put            1.075            5         0.0000018709               1795            Put            3.450            5         0.0000053539
1700            Put            1.125            5         0.0000019464               1800            Put            3.600            5         0.0000055557
1705            Put            1.125            5         0.0000019350               1805            Put            3.800            5         0.0000058319
1710            Put            1.175            5         0.0000020092               1810            Put            3.950            5         0.0000060287
1715            Put            1.225            5         0.0000020825               1815            Put            4.200            5         0.0000063750
1720            Put            1.275            5         0.0000021549               1820            Put            4.400            5         0.0000066419
1725            Put            1.325            5         0.0000022265               1825            Put            4.650            5         0.0000069808
1730            Put            1.375            5         0.0000022972               1830            Put            4.900            5         0.0000073160
1735            Put            1.425            5         0.0000023670               1835            Put            5.150            5         0.0000076474
1740            Put            1.475            5         0.0000024360               1840            Put            5.450            5         0.0000080490
1745            Put            1.550            5         0.0000025452               1845            Put            5.750            5         0.0000084461
1750            Put            1.600            5         0.0000026123               1850            Put            6.050            5         0.0000088388
1755            Put            1.675            5         0.0000027192               1855            Put            6.450            5         0.0000093724
1760            Put            1.750            5         0.0000028248               1860            Put            6.750            5         0.0000097557
1765            Put            1.825            5         0.0000029292               1865            Put            7.150            5         0.0000102785
1770            Put            1.900            5         0.0000030324               1870            Put            7.650            5         0.0000109385
1775            Put            2.000            5         0.0000031740               1875            Put            8.150            5         0.0000115914
1780            Put            2.075            5         0.0000032746               1880            Put            8.600            5         0.0000121664
1785            Put            2.175            5         0.0000034132               1885            Put            9.200            5         0.0000129463
1790            Put            2.250            5         0.0000035112               1890            Put            9.750            5         0.0000136478
1795            Put            2.375            5         0.0000036856               1895            Put            10.400           5         0.0000144809
1800            Put            2.525            5         0.0000038967               1900            Put            11.100           5         0.0000153743
1805            Put            2.625            5         0.0000040286               1905            Put            11.800           5         0.0000162582
1810            Put            2.775            5         0.0000042353               1910            Put            12.600           5         0.0000172697
1815            Put            2.950            5         0.0000044776               1915            Put            13.450           5         0.0000183386
1820            Put            3.075            5         0.0000046417               1920            Put            14.400           5         0.0000195317
1825            Put            3.300            5         0.0000049541               1925            Put            15.400           5         0.0000207797
1830            Put            3.450            5         0.0000051511               1930            Put            16.400           5         0.0000220146
1835            Put            3.650            5         0.0000054200               1935            Put            17.600           5         0.0000235035
1840            Put            3.900            5         0.0000057598               1940            Put            18.800           5         0.0000249767
1845            Put            4.100            5         0.0000060224               1945            Put            20.200           5         0.0000266989
1850            Put            4.350            5         0.0000063551               1950            Put            21.600           5         0.0000284031
1855            Put            4.650            5         0.0000067568               1955            Put            23.200           5         0.0000303512
1860            Put            4.950            5         0.0000071542               1960      Put/Call Average     26.100           5         0.0000339711
4TABLE Method              Sensitivity/specificity   Advantages                                      Disadvantages                                   Cost*         References
Rapid  diagnostic test     sens:                     •  Differentiates P. falciparum from non-       • Cannot   differentiate between  non-          1.00
based  on pLDH:            spec:                       falciparum  infections.                         falciparum  species.
(OptiMal  - Flow Inc)                                • Speed   and ease of use; minimal  training    • Will not quantify  parsitaemia
requirements   to achieve  reliable result.     (+/- only).
• Reportedly   does not remain  positive
after clearance  of parasites.
• No  electricity, no special equipment
needed;  could  be used  in community
outreach  programmes.
Rapid  diagnostic stick    sens: 84%  –97%           • Speed   and ease of use; minimal  training    • Will not diagnose  non-falciparum             0.80 to       (23)
test based on  PfHRP-II:   spec: 81%–100%              requirements   to achieve  reliable results.    malaria  although  subsequent                 1.00
(ParaSight-F –                                       • No  electricity, no special equipment           generation   tests will be able to do this.
Becton  – Dickinson;       lower values probably       needed;  could  be used  at health post/      • Will not quantify  parasitaemia                             (22)
Malaria PfTest –           due to low parasite         community    outreach.                          (+/- only).
ICT Diagnostics)           densities                 • Card  format easier to use for individual     • Can  remain  positive after clearance of
tests; dipstick test easier to use for          parasites.
batched   testing.
Light microscopy           Optimal  conditions:      • Species-specific  diagnosis.                  • Requires  relatively high degree  of          0.03 to       (22)
sens: >90%                • Quantification  of parasitaemia  aids           training and  supervision  for reliable       0.08**        (11)
spec: 100%                  treatment   follow-up.                          results.
• Sensitivity and  specificity dependent
Typical field conditions:                                                   on  training and supervision.
sens: 25%–100%                                                            • Special  equipment   and supplies  needed.
spec: 56%–100%                                                            • Electricity desirable.
• Time-consuming.
Fluorescent  microscopy:   AO: 42%–93%    sens/      • Results  attainable more  quickly than        • Special equipment    and supplies  needed.    0.03 (AO)     (24)
• Acridine orange  [AO]    52–93%   spec               normal   microscopy.                          • Sensitivity of AO poor  with low  parasite    to 1.70       (22)
stained  thick blood                                                                                 densities.                                    (QBC)
smears);                                                                                           • Electricity required.
• Quantitative  Buffy      QBC: 89%  sens/  >95%                                                     • Unreliable  species diagnosis; non-specific
Coat (QBCTM)  –          spec                                                                        staining  of debris and non-parasitic cells.
(Becton-Dickinson)                                                                                 • QBC  will not quantify parasitaemia.
• Acridine  orange  is a hazardous material.
Clinical, especially       Variable depending   on   • Speed   and ease  of use.                     • Can  result in high degree of misdiagnosis    Variable      (111)
based  on formal           level of clinical         • No  electricity, no special equipment           and  over-treatment   for malaria.            depending
algorithm  such as         competency,  training,      needed   beyond  normal   clinical            • Requires  close supervision  and              on            (112)
Integrated  Manage-        and malaria  risk           equipment    (thermometer,  stethoscope,        retraining to maximize   reliability.         situation.
ment  of Childhood         (endemicity):               otoscope,  timer).
Illnesses (IMCI) or        with IMCI:
similar algorithm          low risk: sens: 87%
spec: 8%
high risk: sens: 100%
spec: 0%
Table   2   Seasonal    risk of concussion    in sports
Concussed   per
Author                     Type  of athletes                                    years  of study      seasons  (n)     Athletes  (n)     Concussed          player/season   (%)
Football
Barr and McCrea15       High school and college football                     1997–1999            2                   1313             50                1.9
McCrea18                High school and college football                     1998–1999            2                   1325             63                2.4
McCrea  et al17         High school and college football                     1999–2001            3                   2385             91                3.8
McCrea  et al19         College football                                     1999–2001            2                                    94                3.9
Barr et al16            High school and college football                     2008–2009            2                     823            59                7.2
Seidman  et al24        High school football                                 2013                 1                     343              9               2.6
Dompier  et al25        Football                                             2012–2013            2                  20 479          1178                5.8
Youth football                                       2012–2013            2                   4092            136                3.3
High school football                                 2012–2013            2                  11 957           767                6.4
College football                                     2012–2013            2                   4430            275                6.7
College football                                     2011–2014            4                   9718            518                5.3
Houck et al26           College football                                     2006–2015            9                   945*            118               12.5
Bretzin et al14         High school football                                 2015–2016            1                  39 520          1530                3.9
Total football                                                                                                        67 133          3192                4.8
All sports
Galetta et al27         Football, sprint football, men’s and women’s soccer  2010–2011            1                     219            10                4.6
and basketball
Marinides et al20       College athletes                                     2011–2012            1                     217            30               13.8
Galetta et al21         Ice hockey/lacrosse youth and college                                     1                     332            12                3.6
Leong et al28           Football, men’s and women’s  basketball              2012–2013            1                     127            11                8.7
Putukian et al22        College athletes                                     2011–2012            1                     263            32               12.2
Chin et al23            High school and college athletes                     2012–2014            3                   2018            166                2.7
Kerr et al12            NCAA  athletes                                       2011–2014            4                  32 156          1410                4.4
Men’s baseball                                       2011–2014            4                   1757             13                0.7
Men’s basketball                                     2011–2014            4                   1889             74                3.9
College football                                     2011–2014            4                   9718            518                5.3
Men’s ice hockey                                     2011–2014            4                   3689            253                6.9
Men’s lacrosse                                       2011–2014            4                   1768             44                2.5
Men’s soccer                                         2011–2014            4                   1810             29                1.6
Men’s wrestling                                      2011–2014            4                     821            65                7.9
Women’s   basketball                                 2011–2014            4                   1690             90                5.3
Women’s   ice hockey                                 2011–2014            4                   1301             94                7.2
Women’s   lacrosse                                   2011–2014            4                   1522             49                3.2
Women’s   softball                                   2011–2014            4                   1569             38                2.4
Women’s   soccer                                     2011–2014            4                   2831             93                3.3
Women’s   volleyball                                 2011–2014            4                   1791             50                2.8
Dhawan  et al29         Youth hockey                                                              1                     141            20               14.2
Tsushima  et al13        Athletes grades 8–12                                 2013–2014            1                  10 334          1250               12.1
Bretzin et al14         High school athletes in 15 sports                    2015–2016            1                193 757           3352                1.7
Total                                                                                                                 239  564          6293                2.6
Calls                             Puts
Strike
Bid              Ask              Bid             Ask
1670            291.90           295.70            0.60            1.15
1675            287.00           290.70            0.65            1.20
1680            282.00           285.70            0.70            1.25
1685            277.00           280.80            0.75            1.30
1690            272.10           275.80            0.75            1.30
1695            267.10           270.90            0.80            1.35
1700            262.10           265.90            0.85            1.40
1705            257.20           261.00            0.85            1.40
1710            252.20           256.00            0.90            1.45
1715            247.30           251.10            0.95            1.50
1720            242.30           246.10            1.00            1.55
1725            237.40           241.20            1.05            1.60
1730            232.40           236.30            1.10            1.65
1735            227.50           231.30            1.15            1.70
1740            222.50           226.40            1.20            1.75
1745            217.60           221.50            1.25            1.85
1750            212.60           216.60            1.30            1.90
1755            207.70           211.60            1.40            1.95
1760            202.80           206.70            1.45            2.05
1765            197.80           201.80            1.50            2.15
1770            192.90           196.90            1.60            2.20
1775            188.00           192.00            1.65            2.35
1780            183.10           187.10            1.75            2.40
1785            178.20           182.20            1.85            2.50
1790            173.30           177.30            1.90            2.60
1795            168.40           172.40            2.00            2.75
1800            163.50           167.50            2.15            2.90
1805            158.60           162.60            2.25            3.00
1810            153.80           157.80            2.35            3.20
1815            148.90           152.90            2.50            3.40
1820            144.10           148.10            2.65            3.50
1825            139.20           143.30            3.00            3.60
1830            134.40           138.40            3.00            3.90
1835            129.60           133.60            3.20            4.10
1840            124.80           128.80            3.40            4.40
1845            120.10           124.10            3.60            4.60
1850            115.40           119.30            3.80            4.90
1855            110.60           114.60            4.10            5.20
1860            105.90           109.90            4.40            5.50
1865            101.30           105.20            4.70            5.80
1870            96.60            100.50            5.00            6.20
1875            92.00            95.90             5.40            6.60
1880            87.40            91.30             5.80            7.00
1885            82.90            86.70             6.20            7.50
1890            78.40            82.20             6.70            8.00
1895            74.00            77.70             7.20            8.60
1900            69.60            73.20             7.80            8.80
Next-Term   Options   (cont.)
Calls                             Puts
Strike
Bid              Ask              Bid             Ask
1875            94.50            95.90             8.00            8.30
1880            90.00            91.40             8.40            8.80
1885            85.50            86.90             9.00            9.40
1890            81.10            82.50             9.50            10.00
1895            76.80            78.10            10.20            10.60
1900            72.40            73.70            10.90            11.30
1905            68.20            69.40            11.60            12.00
1910            64.00            65.20            12.40            12.80
1915            59.80            61.10            13.20            13.70
1920            55.70            57.00            14.20            14.60
1925            51.70            53.00            15.20            15.60
1930            47.80            49.10            16.20            16.60
1935            44.60            45.10            17.40            17.80
1940            40.80            41.30            18.60            19.00
1945            37.20            37.70            20.00            20.40
1950            33.70            34.40            21.40            21.80
1955            30.30            30.90            23.00            23.40
1960            27.00            27.60            24.70            25.10
1965            23.80            24.50            26.50            27.30
1970            20.80            21.40            28.50            29.40
1975            18.00            18.60            30.50            31.60
1980            15.50            15.90            33.00            34.00
1985            13.10            13.50            35.50            36.60
1990            10.90            11.30            38.40            39.50
1995             9.00             9.30            41.30            42.50
2000             7.20             7.60            44.50            45.80
2005             5.70             6.00            48.10            49.30
2010             4.50             4.80            51.70            53.00
2015             3.40             3.70            55.80            57.00
2020             2.60             2.80            59.90            61.70
2025             1.95             2.15            64.10            66.10
2030             1.45             1.65            68.60            70.60
2035             1.05             1.25            73.30            75.20
2040             0.80             0.95            78.00            80.00
2045             0.60             0.75            82.00            84.80
2050             0.50             0.65            86.90            89.60
2060             0.30             0.40            96.60            99.40
2070             0.20             0.30           106.70           109.50
2075             0.15             0.25           111.70           114.50
2100             0.10             0.20           136.30           139.10
2125             0.05             0.15           161.50           164.30
2150             0.05             0.15           186.30           189.00
2175             0.00             0.10           211.30           214.00
2200             0.05             0.10           236.30           239.00
2225             0.00             0.10           261.30           264.00
2250             0.00             0.10           286.30           289.00
Year(s) for which
Reference                               Region                       costs are reported              Reported  cost
Annual   costs *
Chamberlain   et al . [ 9 ]             England/Wales                1997                            Total costs for prostate cancer  £ 55 000 000
Direct costs for prostate cancer  £ 45 000 000
Marks  et al . [ 10 ]                   Australia                    1993 – 1994                     Total costs for prostate cancer  AU$101  100 000
Koopsmanschap    et al . [ 11 ]         Netherlands                  1988                            Total costs for prostate cancer  Dutch guilders 110 000 000
National  Cancer Institute              USA                          2006  (projected)               Estimated  annual  costs for prostate cancer  $9 862 000 000
[ 12 ]
First-year  costs after diagnosis
Lazzaro et al . [ 13 ]                  Italy                        2000                            Cost  per patient € 6 600
Fourcade  et al . [ 14 ]                Europe                       2006                            Total cost                                   Per patient cost
UK                                                           € 116 700 000                                € 3 171
Germany                                                      € 179 000 000                                € 4 057
France                                                       € 167 500 000                                € 5 851
Italy                                                        € 106 700 000                                € 5 226
Spain                                                        € 114 600 000                                € 3 256
Roehrborn   et al . [ 15 ]              USA                          2004                            Cost  per patient $13 901  (average across cancer  stages) a
Diagnosis  and  treatment   costs over  4 – 5 years
Sangar  et al . [ 16 ]                  UK                           2001 – 2002                     Total cost for PCa £ 92 740 000
Average  cost per pt £ 7 294.20
Treatment  costs;
Watchful  waiting  £ 1 800 000
Treatment  £ 89 920 000
Benedict  et al . †                     Europe                       2006                            Total costs                                  Per patient cost
UK                                                           € 269 000 000                                £ 5 984
Germany                                                      € 486 000 000                                € 10 949
France                                                       € 618 000 000                                € 9 725
Italy                                                        € 364 000 000                                € 8 516
Spain                                                        € 198 000 000                                € 7 753
Stokes et al . [ 17 ]                   USA                          2004  (projected)               Initial treatment $13 901/patient  (average across cancer
stages) [ 15 ] a
4-year  follow-up  $18 168/patient  (average across cancer
stages) b
Combined   prostate  cancer costs of $18 168  for 81 659
patients over an average  follow-up  of 4 years produced
total prostate cancer-specifi c costs of $1 483 580 712.
A. Official reserve assets  (Note  1)                                                118,387
(1) Foreign currency  reserves  (in convertible foreign currencies)                  118,640
(a) Securities (Note  2)                                                             109,203
of which: issuer  headquartered   in Hong  Kong  but located abroad                         0
(b) total currency and deposits  with:                                                  9,437
(i) other national central banks, BIS and  IMF  (Note  3)                               2,434
(ii) banks headquartered   in Hong  Kong  (Note  4)                                     3,448
of which: located  abroad                                                                   0
(iii) banks headquartered  outside  Hong  Kong   (Note  4)                              3,555
of which: located  in Hong  Kong                                                        3,053
(2) IMF reserve  position                                                                   0
(3) SDRs
(4) gold (including gold deposits  and, if appropriate, gold swapped)                      28
—volume    in fine troy ounces  (66,916  ounces  at USD417.25)                              0
(5) other reserve assets  (specify)                                                      -281
—financial  derivatives  (Note 5)                                                        -442
—loans   to nonbank  nonresidents                                                           0
—other   (Note  6)                                                                        161
B. Other  foreign currency assets  (specify)   (Note 7)                                    31
—securities  not included  in official reserve assets
—deposits   not included  in official reserve assets                                       24
—loans   not included in official reserve assets
—financial  derivatives not included  in official reserve assets
—gold   not included in official reserve assets
—other                                                                                      7
Maturity  breakdown    (residual  maturity)
More  than  1  More  than  3
Up  to 1        and  up to 3   months   and
Total          month           months         up  to 1 year
1. Foreign currency  loans, securities, and deposits                                        0               0              0              0
—outflows   (-)                                                 Principal                   0               0              0              0
Interest                    0               0              0              0
—inflows  (+)                                                   Principal
Interest
2. Aggregate   short and long positions  in forwards and  futures in foreign
currencies  vis-à-vis the domestic  currency (including the forward  leg of            533             533               0              0
currency  swaps)
(a) Short positions ( - )                                                                 0               0              0              0
(b) Long  positions (+)                                                                533             533               0              0
3. Other  (specify)                                                                    -134           -134               0              0
—outflows   related to repos (-)                                                       -115           -115               0              0
—inflows   related to reverse repos  (+)
—trade   credit (-)
—trade   credit (+)
—other   accounts  payable  (-)                                                         -19            -19               0              0
—other   accounts  receivable  (+)
Expenditure
threshold      1%  total HE       2%  total HE        3%  total HE        4% total HE        5%  total HE
$ 800              $ 1 500            $ 2 300             $ 3 000             $ 3 800
Low  income        ($ 600; $ 1 000)  ($ 1 200; $ 2 000)  ($ 1 700; $ 3 000) ($ 2 300; $ 4 100)  ($ 2 900; $ 5 100)
Lower-middle           $ 1 600            $ 3 200            $ 4 800             $ 6 400             $ 8 000
income            ($ 1 100; $ 2 600) ($ 2 200; $ 5 200)  ($ 3 300; $ 7 700) ($ 4 300; $ 10 300) ($ 5 400; $ 12 900)
Upper-middle           $ 3 100            $ 6 200            $ 9 400             $ 12 500           $ 15 600
income            ($ 1 900; $ 4 500) ($ 3 800; $ 9 100) ($ 5 700; $ 13 600) ($ 7 500; $ 18 100) ($ 9 400; $ 22 600)
High income            $ 8 100            $ 16 300           $ 24 400           $ 32 500            $ 40 600
($ 4 700; $ 14 600) ($ 9 400; $ 29 200) ($ 14 100; $ 43 800) ($ 18 800; $ 58 500) ($ 23 500; $ 73 100)
Código                               Descrição do                           Dente/face/           Código
TuSS                               procedimento                               Região              TuSS
DIAGNÓSTICO
81000030         Consulta odontológica                                         ASAI               85200115
81000065         Consulta odontológica inicial                                 ASAI               85200123
81000073         Consulta odontológica para avaliação técnica de auditoria     ASAI               85200131
81000111         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  citologia               SEXTANTE              85200140
esfoliativa na região buco-maxilo-facial                                         85200158
81000138         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  material de             SEXTANTE              85200166
biópsia na região buco-maxilo-facial
81000154         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  peça cirúrgica          SEXTANTE              82000034
na região buco-maxilo-facial                                                     82000077
81000170         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  punção na               SEXTANTE              82000085
região buco-maxilo-facial                                                        82000158
84000244         Teste de fluxo salivar                                        ASAI               82000166
uRGêNCIA   E EMERGêNCIA                                              82000174
81000049         Consulta odontológica de Urgência                             ASAI               82000182
81000057         Consulta odontológica de Urgência 24 hs                       ASAI               82000239
82001022         Incisão e Drenagem  extra-oral de abscesso,               HEMI-ARCO              82000247
hematoma   e/ou flegmão da região buco-maxilo-facial                             82000255
82001030         Incisão e Drenagem  intra-oral de abscesso,                 GRUPO                82000263
hematoma   e/ou flegmão  da região buco-maxilo-facial                            82000271
82001197         Redução  simples de luxação de Articulação                    ASAI               82000280
Têmporo-mandibular   (ATM)                                                       82000298
82001251         Reimplante  dentário com contenção                           DENTE               82000301
82001499         Sutura de ferida em região buco-maxilo-facial               GRUPO                82000352
82001650         Tratamento  de alveolite                                     DENTE               82000360
85100048         Colagem  de fragmentos  dentários                            DENTE               82000387
85200034         Pulpectomia                                                  DENTE               82000395
85300063         Tratamento  de abscesso periodontal agudo                   GRUPO                82000786
85300071         Tratamento  de gengivite necrosante aguda - GNA             GRUPO                82000794
85300080         Tratamento  de pericoronarite                               GRUPO                82000808
85400041         Conserto em  prótese parcial removível                    HEMI-ARCO              82000816
(exclusivamente em  consultório)                                                 82000832
85400068         Conserto em  prótese total                                  ARCADA
(exclusivamente em  consultório)                                                 82000859
85400467         Recimentação  de trabalhos protéticos                        DENTE               82000875
RADIOLOGIA                                                     82000883
81000383         Radiografia oclusal                                           ASAI               82000891
81000278         Fotografia                                                HEMI-ARCO              82000905
81000294         Levantamento  Radiográfico (Exame  Radiodôntico)              ASAI               82000913
81000375         Radiografia interproximal - bite-wing                     HEMI-ARCO              82001073
81000405         Radiografia panorâmica de                                     ASAI               82001103
mandíbula/maxila  (ortopantomografia)                                            82001170
81000421         Radiografia periapical                                      GRUPO                82001189
Prevenção                                                    82001286
84000031         Aplicação de cariostático                                    DENTE               82001294
84000058         Aplicação de selante - técnica invasiva                      DENTE               82001510
84000074         Aplicação de selante de fóssulas e fissuras                  DENTE               82001529
84000090         Aplicação tópica de flúor                                     ASAI               82001545
84000139         Atividade educativa em saúde bucal                            ASAI
84000163         Controle de biofilme (placa bacteriana)                       ASAI               82001553
84000198         Profilaxia: polimento coronário                               ASAI
85300055         Remoção   dos fatores de retenção do                       SEXTANTE              82001588
Biofilme Dental (Placa Bacteriana)
87000016         Atividade educativa em odontologia para pais e/ou             ASAI               82001596
cuidadores de pacientes com necessidades especiais
87000024         Atividade educativa para pais e/ou cuidadores                 ASAI               82001618
DENTíSTICA
85100013         Capeamento   pulpar direto                                   DENTE               82001634
85100064         Faceta direta em resina fotopolimerizável                 DENTE/  FACE
85100099         Restauração de amálgama   - 1 face                        DENTE/  FACE           82001642
85100102         Restauração de amálgama   - 2 faces                       DENTE/  FACE
85100110         Restauração de amálgama   - 3 faces                       DENTE/  FACE           82001707
85100129         Restauração de amálgama   - 4 faces                       DENTE/  FACE           82001715
85100196         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 1 face           DENTE/  FACE
85100200         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 2 faces          DENTE/  FACE           81000014
85100218         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 3 faces          DENTE/  FACE           83000020
85100226         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 4 faces          DENTE/  FACE           83000046
ou mais faces                                                                    83000062
85400017         Ajuste Oclusal por acréscimo                                ARCADA               83000089
85400025         Ajuste Oclusal por desgaste seletivo                        ARCADA               83000127
85400211         Núcleo de preenchimento                                      DENTE               83000151
PERIODONTIA                                                 87000032
82000212         Aumento   de coroa clínica                                  GRUPO
82000336         Cirurgia odontológica a retalho                            SEXTANTE
82000417         Cirurgia periodontal a retalho                             SEXTANTE              85400076
82000557         Cunha  proximal                                             GRUPO                85400084
82000921         Gengivectomia                                              SEXTANTE              85400114
82000948         Gengivoplastia                                             SEXTANTE              85400149
82001464         Sepultamento  radicular                                      DENTE               85400220
85300020         Imobilização dentária em dentes permanentes                 GRUPO                85400262
85300039         Raspagem   sub-gengival/alisamento radicular               SEXTANTE              85400432
85300047         Raspagem   supra-gengival                                    AS; AI              85400440
ENDODONTIA                                                  85400459
85200042         Pulpotomia                                                   DENTE               85400556
85200077         Remoção   de núcleo intrarradicular                          DENTE               87000040
85200093         Retratamento  endodôntico  birradicular                      DENTE               87000059
85200107         Retratamento  endodôntico  multirradicular                   DENTE               87000067
Principal Efflorescing   Salt           Most  Probable   Source
Calcium sulfate            CaSO  4●2H 2O       Brick
Sodium  sulfate            Na 2SO 4●10H 2O     Cement-brick  reactions
Potassium  sulfate         K 2SO 4             Cement-brick  reactions
Calcium carbonate          CaCO                Mortar    concrete
3                    or
backing
Sodium  carbonate          Na 2CO              Mortar
3
Potassium  carbonate       K 2CO 3             Mortar
Potassium  chloride        KCl                 Acid Cleaning
Sodium  chloride           NaCl                Sea Water
Vanadyl  sulfate           VOSO                Brick
4
Vanadyl  chloride          VOCl                Acid
2                   Cleaning
Manganese   oxide          Mn 3O               Brick
4
Iron oxide                 Fe 2O 3 or          Iron in contact or brick
Fe(OH) 3            with "black core" or
"black heart"
Calcium hydroxide          Ca(OH) 2            Cement
Relative
Variable                     Comparison                 weight†
Swollen  MCP   joint      Present  vs. absent                     1.5
Swollen  PIP joint        Present  vs. absent                     1.5
Swollen  wrist            Present  vs. absent                     1.6
Hand   tenderness         Present  vs. absent                     1.8
Acute-phase   response    Low-level  abnormal   vs. normal        1.2
Highly  abnormal   vs. normal           1.7
Serology                  Low-positive  vs. negative              2.2
(RF  or ACPA)           High-positive  vs. negative             3.9
Maturity  breakdown     (residual maturity)
More   than 1   More  than  3
Up  to 1       and  up  to 3   months   and
Total          month          months          up to 1 year
1. Foreign currency  loans, securities, and deposits                                        0              0              0              0
—outflows   (-)                                                 Principal                   0              0              0              0
Interest                    0              0              0              0
—inflows  (+)                                                   Principal
Interest
2. Aggregate   short and long positions in forwards  and futures in foreign
currencies  vis-à-vis the domestic  currency (including the forward  leg of            300            300               0              0
currency  swaps)
(a) Short positions ( - )                                                                 0              0              0              0
(b) Long  positions (+)                                                                300            300               0              0
3. Other  (specify)                                                                      -6             -6              0              0
—outflows   related to repos (-)                                                          0              0              0              0
—inflows   related to reverse repos (+)
—trade   credit (-)
—trade   credit (+)
—other   accounts  payable  (-)                                                          -6             -6              0              0
—other   accounts  receivable (+)
Název    organizace:                                                                                      Kurz  EUR/CZK      (záloha):
Číslo   projektu:                                                                        Kurz  EUR/CZK      (průběžná    platba):
Počet       Sazba  za       Rozpočet  dle    Vyčerpáno  celkem     Odchylka       Odchylka
Náklady                                              Jednotka    jednotek    jednotku (v €)       smlouvy               v €             (v €)           (v %)               Vysvětlete odchylky od schváleného   rozpočtu:
1. Lidské    zdroje
1.1 Platy (celkový  plat včetně  odvodů,   místní zaměstnanci)
1.1.1 Realizátoři, koordinátoři, vedoucí projektu, atd.                                      měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.1.1.1. Koordinátor projektu                                                                měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.1.2 Administrativní/podpůrní zaměstnanci                                                   měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.2 Platy (celkový  plat, zahraniční  pracovníci)
1.2.1 (…)                                                                                    měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.2.2 (…)                                                                                    měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.2.2 (…)                                                                                    měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.3 Diety
1.3.1 Do zahraničí (pro zaměstnance pracující na projektu)                                    den               0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.3.2 Místní (pro zaměstnance pracující na projektu)                                          den               0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
1.3.3 Seminář/účastníci konference                                                            den                                                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet     lidských   zdrojů                                                                                                                     0           0.00   €         0.00  €    #DIV/0!
2. Cestovné
2.1 Mezinárodní cesty                                                                            let              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
2.2 Místní přeprava (nad 200 km)                                                               měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet     cestovného                                                                                                                            0           0.00   €         0.00  €    #DIV/0!
3. Technika      a zboží***
3.1 Nákup nebo pronájem vozidla                                                                vozidlo            0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
3.2 Nábytek, počítačové vybavení                                                                 ks               0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
3.3 Náhradní díly/zařízení pro stroje, nářadí                                                                                                         0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
3.4 Jiné                                                                                                                                              0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet     techniky   a zboží                                                                                                                    0           0.00   €         0.00  €    #DIV/0!
4.Místní    kancelář/náklady        projektu
4.1 Náklady vozidla                                                                            měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
4.2 Pronájem kanceláře                                                                         měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
4.3 Spotřební materiál - kancelářské zboží                                                     měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
4.4 Jiné služby (tel/fax, elektřina/topení, údržba)                                            měsíc              0               0                   0                  0              0     #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet     místní
kancelář/náklady      projektu                                                                                                                       0           0.00   €         0.00  €    #DIV/0!
Drug  & Class                      1/2 Life        Next Day  Sleepiness [Clinical Trials]               Toxicity And/Or Significant Side Effects
Short acting gaba  agonist         1–2 HR.         Anecdotal  and per survey                            Antegrade  Amnesia,  Confusion  At Higher Dose
- triazolem                                        [placebo
Equivalent]
GABA  selective agents             1 HR.           [Placebo                                             No consistent reports
- zaleplon                                         Equivalent]                                          [not in widespread use]
Zolpidem                           1.5 HR.         Anecdotal  [placebo                                  Symptomatic
Equivalent]                                          Parasomnias,
Per survey when  dosed  outside                      Next night rebound  insomnia
pharmacodynamic    profile and in the elderly
Eszopiclone                        6 HR.           Anecdotal                                            Possible Parasomnia  Associations
[placebo                                             [Agent Not  In Widespread  Generic Use]
Equivalent]
Near-Term   Options   (cont.)
Calls                             Puts
Strike
Bid              Ask              Bid             Ask
1910            61.60            64.10             9.10            10.20
1915            57.40            59.80             9.90            11.30
1920            53.30            55.60            10.70            12.10
1925            49.10            51.20            11.60            12.60
1930            45.20            47.30            12.50            14.00
1935            41.20            43.40            13.60            14.70
1940            37.40            39.50            14.70            15.80
1945            33.70            35.70            15.90            17.20
1950            30.10            32.10            17.70            18.80
1955            26.70            28.50            19.00            20.50
1960            23.40            25.10            20.60            22.00
1965            20.30            21.80            22.30            24.00
1970            17.40            18.80            24.30            25.80
1975            14.60            15.90            26.50            28.10
1980            12.20            13.30            28.90            30.60
1985             9.90            11.00            31.40            33.20
1990             7.90             9.00            34.30            36.50
1995             6.20             7.10            37.40            39.70
2000             4.70             5.20            40.70            43.20
2005             3.40             4.20            44.00            47.70
2010             2.65             3.10            48.00            51.40
2015             1.75             2.30            52.20            56.00
2020             1.20             1.70            56.60            60.40
2025             1.00             1.25            61.20            65.00
2030             0.45             1.00            65.90            69.70
2035             0.25             0.80            70.70            74.40
2040             0.35             0.65            75.60            79.30
2045             0.20             0.60            80.50            84.10
2050             0.20             0.30            85.40            89.00
2055             0.15             0.50            90.40            94.00
2060             0.15             0.30            95.30            98.90
2065             0.15             0.20           100.30           103.90
2070             0.10             0.20           105.30           108.90
2075             0.10             0.20           110.30           113.80
2080             0.05             0.45           115.30           118.80
2085             0.05             0.40           120.30           123.80
2090             0.05             0.15           125.30           128.80
2095             0.05             0.35           130.30           133.80
2100             0.05             0.15           135.30           138.80
2120             0.00             0.15           155.30           158.80
2125             0.05             0.15           160.30           163.80
2150             0.00             0.10           185.20           188.80
2175             0.00             0.05           210.20           213.70
2200             0.00             0.05           235.20           238.70
2225             0.05             0.10           260.20           263.70
2250             0.00             0.05           285.20           288.70
Intervention      Indication         Comparator      Magnitude    of benefits          Adverse  events
Neratinib,        The extended       Placebo,        5-year invasive disease-free      Grade  3 diarrhoea
administered      adjuvant           administered    survival                          • 40%  vs 2%
Vomiting
after chemo-      treatment of       after chemo-    • 90.2%  vs 87.7%
therapy and       adult patients     therapy and     • HR=   0.73 (95% CI: 0.57–0.92)  • 3%  vs <1%
trastuzumab       with early stage   trastuzumab                                       Nausea
(77)              HER2-over-                                                           • 2%  vs <1%
expressed/
amplified breast
cancer
Jurisdiction     Tariffsa         Value-added                         Tariffsa       Value-added
tax              Jurisdiction                      tax
Australia        0%               0%              Mexico              1.84–10%       0%
Brazil           7.06–11.43%      17%             Nigeria             0%             5%
Canada           0%               0%              Norway              0%             25%
China            3.75–6%b         16%             South  Africa       0%             14%
Countries  in                     Variable (0–    Russian             0% (Insulin)
European         0%               15%  based on                                      10%
Union                             national laws)  Federation          –5%  (other)
India            10%              5%               Switzerland        0%             2.5%
Indonesia        0%  (Insulin) –  10%             Turkey              0%             8%
5%  (other)
Japan            0%               8%               USA                0%             Variable (0–7%)
Target  location   Pathway/mechanism             Target molecule                              Examples   of therapies                   References
Existing  therapies          New   compounds
Cytosol            Folate metabolism             Dihydrofolate reductase         Pyrimethamine,  proguanil    Chlorproguanil                  82,83
Dihydropteroate synthase        Sulphadoxine,  dapsone
Glycolysis                    Thymidylate synthase                                         5-fluoroorotate                     84
Lactate dehydrogenase                                        Gossypol  derivatives               85
Peptide deformylase                                          Actinonin                           86
Protein synthesis             Heat-shock  protein 90                                       Geldanamycin                        87
Glutathione metabolism        Glutathione reductase                                        Enzyme   inhibitors                 88
Signal transduction           Protein kinases                                              Oxindole  derivatives               89
Unknown                       Ca2+-ATPase                     Artemisinins                                                     90
Parasite           Phospholipid synthesis        Choline transporter                                          G25                                 71
membrane           Membrane   transport          Unique channels                 Quinolines                   Dinucleoside  dimers                91
Hexose  transporter                                          Hexose  derivatives                 92
Food  vacuole      Haem   polymerization         Haemozoin                       Chloroquine                  New  quinolines                 93,94
Haemoglobin   hydrolysis      Plasmepsins                                                  Protease  inhibitors            95,96
Falcipains                                                   Protease  inhibitors            97,98
Free-radical generation       Unknown                         Artemisinins                 New  peroxides                 99,100
Mitochondrion      Electron transport            Cytochrome  coxidoreductase     Atovaquone                                                     101
Apicoplast         Protein synthesis             Apicoplast ribosome             Tetracyclines, clindamycin                                     102
DNA  synthesis                DNA  gyrase                     Quinolones
Transcription                 RNA  polymerase                 Rifampin
Type II fatty acid bio-       FabH                                                         Thiolactomycin                      29
synthesis                     FabI/PfENR                                                   Triclosan                   32,33,103
Isoprenoid synthesis          DOXP  reductoisomerase                                       Fosmidomycin                        30
Protein farnesylation         Farnesyl transferase                                         Peptidomimetics                25,104
Extracellular      Erythrocyte invasion          Subtilisin serine proteases                                  Protease  inhibitors           97,105
First author  (year)    Pricing approaches    discussed               Country  or region  in scope
WHO   (2015)xxiv        • Mark-up  control                            Global
• Tax exemptions   and reductions
• Cost-plus pricing
• Internal and external reference pricing
• Health technology  assessments
OECD   (2008)xxv        • Mark-up  control                            OECD   countries
• Internal and external reference pricing
• Market-based   pricing
• Cost-plus pricing
• Procurement   and tendering
• Managed   entry agreements
Panteli et al.          • Free pricing                                15 European  countries
(2016)xxvi              • External reference pricing
• Internal reference pricing
• Value-based  pricing
• Negotiations  and tendering
• Managed   entry agreements
• Patient cost-sharing
Schneider  et al.       • External reference pricing                  European  countries, Brazil, Egypt,
(2017)xxvii                                                           Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,  Qatar,
Kavanos  et al.                                                       Saudi Arabia, South  Africa, Republic
(2017)xxviii                                                          of Korea and  the United Arab
Emirates
Towse  et al.           • Differential pricing                        European  Union
(2015)xxix                                                            Lower-income   European   countries
Kaló et al. (2013)xxx
Clark et al. (2012)     • Tendering  and  negotiations                Global, with a focus on low- and
middle-income   countries
Nutrient               Biologic       Val./reproduc     Coef      Details
tissue
Retinol                Plasma         Validity          0.17      Borderline Correlation between  pre-formed  vit A intake and plasma retinol.
However   plasma  retinol is a recognized marker of vit A nutritional status for
undernourished  populations
Beta-carotene                                           0.51      Correlation between  plasma  beta-carotene level (averaged from 2 samples
taken 1 week  apart) and a 7-day diet record estimate of beta-carotene in 98 non-
smoking  women   (Willett, p 194).
0.38      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of carotene and plasma
betacarotene in 902 adult females. In males (n=880): r=0.20 (Margetts, table
7.9a).
Plasma         Reproducibility   0.45      Correlation for carotene (80%  beta-carotene, 20% alpha-carotene) between  two
measurements   taken 6 years apart (Willett, p 194).
Beta-cryptoxanthin     Plasma         Validity          0.49      Correlation between  plasma  beta-carotene level (averaged from 2
Lutein+zeaxanthin      Plasma         Validity          0.31      samples  taken 1 week apart) and a 7-day diet record estimate of beta carotene
Lycopene               Plasma         Validity          0.50      in 98 non-smoking   women  (Willett, p 194)
Alpha-carotene         Plasma         Validity          0.58
Alpha-carotene         Plasma         Validity          0.43      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of carotene and plasma
alphacarotene  in 902 adult females. In males (n=880): r=0.41 (Margetts, table
7.9a).
Carotenoids            Plasma         Reproducibility   !080      Within-person  variability of plasma levels over 1 week (Willett, p 194).
Vitamin  E             Plasma         Validity          0.53      Lipid-adjusted alpha-tocopherol  measurements  and  estimated intake (incl.
supplements).  After excluding supplement  users: r=0.35 (Willett, p 196)
Plasma         Reproducibility   0.65      Unadjusted  repeated measures  over a 6-year period (p 188). Adjusting for
serum  cholesterol reduced correlation to r=0.46 (p 188). Also r=0.65 was found
over a 4-year period in 105 adults in Finland (Willett, p 196).
Plasma         Validity          0.20      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of vit E and plasma vit E in
880  adult males. In females (n=906): r=0.14 (Margetts, table 7.9a)
Intervention      Indication         Comparator       Magnitude   of benefits          Adverse   events
Cetuximab  with   First-line         FOLFIRI alone    Median  PFS                      Any  events
FOLFIRI           treatment in                        • 8.9 months vs 8.0 months       • 79%  vs 61%
(irinotecan, 5-   KRAS  mutation-                     • HR=  0.85 (P=0.048)              (P<0.001)
fluorouracil,     negative EGFR-                                                       Acne-like
Median  OS                                 rash
leucovorin) (72)  expressing metastatic               • 19.9 months vs 18.6 months     • 16.2%  vs 0%
(P<0.001)
colorectal                          • HR=  0.93 (P=0.31)             Infusion related
cancer                                                               • 2.5%  vs 0%
(P<0.001)
Bevacizumab       First-line         Paclitaxel and   Median  PFS                      Neutropenia
with paclitaxel   treatment of       carboplatin      • 6.2 months vs 4.5 months       • 25.5%  vs 16.8%
and carboplatin   locally advan-     alone            • HR=  0.66 (P<0.001)              (P=0.002)
(73)              ced, recurrent,                                                      Thrombocytopaenia
Median  OS
or non-squamous metastatic          • 12.3 months vs 10.3 months     • 1.6% vs 0.2%
(P=0.04)
non-small-cell                      • HR=  0.79 (P=0.003)            Bleeding events
lung cancer                                                          • 4.4%  vs 0.7%
(P<0.001)
Bevacizumab       Metastatic         Paclitaxel       Median  PFS                      Hypertension
with paclitaxel   breast cancer      alone            • 11.8 months vs 5.9 months      • 14.8%  vs 0.0%
(74)                                                  • HR=  0.60 (P<0.001)              (P<0.001)
Median  OS                       Proteinuria
• 26.7 months vs 25.2 months     • 3.6%  vs 0.0%
(P<0.001)
• HR=  0.88 (P=0.1)              Cerebrovascular
ischaemia
• 1.9% vs 0.0%
(P= 0.02)
Erlotinib with    First-line         Gemcitabine      Median  PFS                      Rash
gemcitabine       treatment of       alone            • 3.75 months vs 3.55 months     • 72%  vs 29%
(75)              patients with                       • HR=  0.77 (95% CI: 0.64–0.92)  Infection
locally                             Median  OS                       • 43%  vs 34%
advanced, unresectable or           • 6.24 months  vs 5.91 months    Interstitial lung
disease-like
metastatic                          • HR=  0.82 (95% CI: 0.69–
pancreatic                            0.99)                          syndrome
• 2.1% vs 0.4%
cancer
Ramucirumab       Metastatic or      Best             Median  PFS                      Hypertension
• 16%  vs 8%
(76)              unresectable,      supportive       • 2.1 months vs 1.3 months       Haemorrhage
locally recurrent  care             • HR=  0.48 (95% CI: 0.38–
gastric or                            0.62)                          • 13%  vs 11%
gastro-
Median  OS
oesophageal
junction adeno-                     • 5.2 months vs 3.8 months
Figure   1. Estimated     Numbers     of  US  Cancer    Survivors
As of January  1, 2016                                           As of January  1, 2026
Male                        Female                               Male                       Female
Prostate                     Breast                              Prostate                     Breast
3,306,760                   3,560,570                            4,521,910                   4,571,210
Colon & rectum                Uterine corpus                     Colon & rectum               Uterine corpus
724,690                      757,190                             910,190                     942,670
Melanoma                  Colon & rectum                         Melanoma                  Colon & rectum
614,460                     727,350                              848,020                     885,940
Urinary bladder                 Thyroid                          Urinary bladder                Thyroid
574,250                     630,660                              754,280                     885,590
Non-Hodgkin  lymphoma              Melanoma                      Non-Hodgkin  lymphoma              Melanoma
361,480                     612,790                              488,780                     811,490
Kidney & renal pelvis      Non-Hodgkin  lymphoma                        Kidney              Non-Hodgkin  lymphoma
305,340                     324,890                              429,010                     436,370
Testis                 Lung & bronchus                           Testis                 Lung & bronchus
266,550                     288,210                              335,790                     369,990
Lung & bronchus               Uterine cervix                        Leukemia                   Uterine cervix
238,300                     282,780                              318,430                     286,300
Leukemia                      Ovary                           Lung & bronchus           Kidney & renal pelvis
230,920                     235,200                              303,380                     284,380
Oral cavity & pharynx        Kidney & renal pelvis               Oral cavity & pharynx              Ovary
229,880                     204,040                              293,290                     280,940
Total survivors              Total survivors                     Total survivors             Total survivors
7,377,100                    8,156,120                           9,983,900                  10,305,870
Table   5: Analysis   of the responses    to the first open-ended    question
f %                                                  f
Category        Sub-category                             Experimental                                      Experimental
Mathematical                        Humanities     Mathematical                        Humanities
science                                           science
1)Quality    No response                    23               25/9             32/8             55               49               39
of           No Answer                      13               12/7             18/5             31               24               22
examples     Yes Answer                     64               61/4             48/7             153              116              58
Numbers
Permutation,                  23/4              23/8              26              56               45               31
Combination      and          4/2                3/7             1/7              10                7                2
Probability                   6/3                4/2             0/8              15                8                1
Trigonometry                  0/4                 0               0                1                0                0
2)Subject
variety      Linear Algebra                0/4                 0               0                1                0                0
Integral                      1/7                5/3              0                4                1                0
of           Equation                      8/4                2/6              0                2                5                0
examples
Statistics                    8/4                 1               0                2                2                0
Matrices                      8/4                5/3              0                2                1                0
Coordinates                   1/7                1/6              0                4                3                0
Logarithm                     1/2                5/3              0                3                1                0
Function
Real life
49/4              50/8             46/2             118              96               55
Professional life              18               21/2             10/9             43               40               13
3)Contex     School
t of         Mathematics                   2/1                2/1             0/8               5                4                1
1/2                2/1             0/8               3                4                1
examples     Individual                     5                 5/3             0/8              12               10                1
Game
0                  0              0/8               0                0                1
Table  6: Analysis   of the  responses   to the second   open-ended    question
Experimental
Category        Sub-category                Illustrative quote             Mathematical            science            Humanities
f         f %        f       f %       f           f %
No response                                                 101       42/2       80      42/3       54         45/3
1)Quality   of
examples         No Answer                                                    14        5/9       28      14/8       16         13/4
Yes Answer                                                  124       51/9       81      42/9       49         41/2
Make    our   life more    practical
When      constructing     buildings
Affecting scores in courses               50       20/9       33      17/5       33         27/7
Real life                                                    13        5/4       6        3/2       4           3/4
Professional life  Improving              mathematics        1         0/4       1        0/5       2           1/7
2)Context of                        achievement
examples         School             Mathematical     understanding    is      6         1/8       45      23/8       21         17/6
Mathematics                                                  3         1/2       1        0/5       0            0
Individual         important.                                28       11/7       4        2/1       7           5/9
Providing    reasonable    thinking
Increasing  motivation                    21        8/9       8        4/2       1           0/8
# Split   Polarity       Feature            Source
103         0.60          study        press release
94          1.29      mesothelioma          abstract
86          0.18           95               abstract
75          -0.35       alzheimer           abstract
62          0.46         patients      press release
60          0.58           use         press release
45          0.24         protein       press release
44          0.21          health            abstract
41          -0.14          cell             abstract
40          0.13        evidence            abstract
39          -0.20        protein            abstract
39          0.82           diet        press release
38          0.61          years        press release
38          0.64         people        press release
38          0.20       participants         abstract
33          0.34          issue        press release
31          0.24          world             abstract
31          0.59        evidence       press release
28          0.16          body              abstract
28          0.16          years             abstract
Agents               Date         Indication                                                                       Age
approved
>65  (%)    >75 (%)
Ixabepilone [22]     10/2007      Combination   with capecitabine in metastatic or locally advanced           10       <1
breast cancer resistant to treatment with an anthracycline and a
taxane
10/2007      Monotherapy   in metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer resistant     13       3
to anthracyclines, taxanes, and capecitabine
Eribulin [23]        11/2010      Third-line treatment metastatic breast cancer                               15       2
Everolimus  [21]     7/2012       Advanced   hormone  receptor-positive, HER2-negative  breast cancer in      40       15
combination  with exemestane,  after failure of treatment with
letrozole or anastrozole
Ado-trastuzumab      2/2013       HER2-positive   breast cancer following treatment with trastuzumab          13       2
emtansine  [24]                    and a taxane
Pertuzumab  [25]     6/2012       Combination   with trastuzumab  and docetaxel in HER2-positive              15       1
metastatic breast cancer who have not received prior anti-HER2
therapy
Lapatinib [26, 27]   1/2010       Combination   with capecitabine in metastatic HER2-positive breast          17       1
cancer
Combination   with letrozole in metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer      44       12
Drug  Name  (Brand Name)                     Biomarker(s)                    Indication(s)
Oncology  (cont.)
96      Ponatinib (Iclusig®)                         BCR-ABL1                        Chronic lymphocytic  leukemia,
acute lymphocytic leukemia
97      Rituximab  (Rituxan®)                        MS4A1                           Non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma,
chronic lymphocytic leukemia,
and autoimmune   diseases
98      Tamoxifen  (Nolvadex®)                       ESR1; ESR2; PGR;  F5; F2;       Breast cancer
CYP2D6
99      Thioguanine  (Tabloid®)                      TPMT                            Acute myeloid leukemia, acute
lymphocytic leukemia, and
chronic myeloid leukemia
100     Tositumomab   (Bexxar®)                      MS4A1                           Non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma
101     Trametinib (Mekinist®)                       BRAF                            Melanoma
102     Trastuzumab  (Herceptin®)                    ERBB2                           Breast cancer
103     Tretinoin (Vesanoid®)                        PML  / RARɑ                     Acute promyelocytic  leukemia
104     Vemurafenib  (ZelborafTM)                    BRAF; NRAS                      Melanoma
Psychiatry
105     Aripiprazole (Abilify®)                      CYP2D6                          Schizophrenia, bipolar disorder
106     Amitriptyline (Elavil®)                      CYP2D6;  CYP2C19                Depression
107     Atomoxetine  (Strattera®)                    CYP2D6                          ADHD
108     Citalopram  (Celexa®)                        CYP2C19                         Depression
109     Clomipramine   (Anafranil®)                  CYP2D6                          Depression
110     Clozapine (Clozaril®)                        CYP2D6                          Schizophrenia
111     Desipramine  (Norpramin®)                    CYP2D6                          Depression
112     Doxepin  (Silenor®)                          CYP2D6;  CYP2C19                Insomnia, depression
113     Fluoxetine (Prozac®)                         CYP2D6                          Depression
114     Fluvoxamine  (Luvox CR®)                     CYP2D6                          Obsessive compulsive disorders
115     Iloperidone (Fanapt®)                        CYP2D6                          Schizophrenia
116     Imipramine  (Tofranil-PM®)                   CYP2D6;  CYP2C19                Depression
117     Nortriptyline (Pamelor®)                     CYP2D6                          Depression
118     Paroxetine (Pexeva®)                         CYP2D6                          Major depressive disorder,
obsessive compulsive disorder,
panic disorder, and generalized
anxiety disorder
119     Perphenazine  (Trilafon®)                    CYP2D6                          Schizophrenia
120     Pimozide  (Orap®)                            CYP2D6                          Tourette’s syndrome
target word       CUI De(cid:2)nition ST De(cid:2)nition
c1  c2   c3  c1 c2   c3
adjustment        41   9   48  31 19   10
blood pressure    26  18    0  20 31   22
degree             0   0       15 23
evaluation        54   0       33 17
growth            91  91       20 19
immunosuppression 130 41       30 20
mosaic nutrition  152 0 38 152 0 0 10 10 10 31 23 30
radiation         71  207      14 30
repair             0  51       30 20
scale              0  10   144 47 23   8
sensitivity        0   0    0  25 50   22
white              0  60       15 28
Table 8  Success rates (%) in development   2009–2014   for MMV  compared    to benchmark   data, by phase
MMV                                                       CMRa                         PBFb
Excluding LCMc               Including LCM
Per phase    Cumu-lative     Per phase    Cumu-lative     Per phase    Cumu-lative     Per phase    Cumu-lative
Preclinical     50             8             50           14              60           5               40           3
Phase I         70            16             70           27              56           9               54           7
Phase IIa       75            23             78           39              36          16               34          13
Phase IIb       60d           30             75           50              60d         45               60d         38
Phase III       50            50             67           67              84          75               70          64
Registration   100          100             100          100              89          89               91          91
95%  CI
Fixed effects     Estimate   Lower    Upper    t Ratio   P (cid:4) (cid:1)t(cid:1)
Open   access       1.01      0.95     1.08      0.43    0.669
Self-archived       1.11      0.92     1.33      1.11    0.266
Review  article     1.63      1.46     1.82      8.52    (cid:5).0001
Number    of
authorsa          1.26      1.21     1.32    10.07     (cid:5).0001
Page  lengtha       1.56      1.44     1.69    10.66     (cid:5).0001
95%  CI
Random     Variance    Variance                     Percentage
effects      ratio    component    Lower    Upper     of total
Journal      1.86        0.96       0.62     1.67        65
Residual                 0.51       0.49     0.54        35
Total                    1.47                           100
Počet        Sazba za       Rozpočet  dle    Vyčerpáno  celkem    Odchylka       Odchylka
Náklady                                             Jednotka    jednotek   jednotku (v €)      smlouvy               v €             (v €)          (v %)               Vysvětlete odchylky od schváleného  rozpočtu:
5. Jiné   náklady,    služby
5.1 Publikace**                                                                                                0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.2 Studie, výzkum**                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.3 Audit                                                                                                      0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.4 Evaluační náklady                                                                                          0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.5 Překlad, tlumočníci                                                                                        0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.6 Finanční služby (bankovní garance, atd.)                                                                   0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.7 Náklady na konferenci/semináře**                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet    jiných   nákladů   a služeb                                                                                                         0           0.00   €        0.00 €     #DIV/0!
6. Jiné
6.1. (…)                                                                                                       0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.2.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.3.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.4.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet    jiných   nákladů                                                                                                                    0           0.00   €        0.00 €     #DIV/0!
7.  Mezisoučet        přímých      nákladů     projektu     (1.  - 6.)                                                                     0.00   €           0.00   €
8. Administrativní náklady (maximálně 7 % z 8., přímé způsobilé náklady projektu)                                    #DIV/0!                 0.00 €             0.00 €
9.  Celkové     náklady     (7.  + 8.)                                                                                                     0.00   €           0.00   €
Measured        Include                                                              Exclude
in
Serum           Provit A carotenoids:  Carotene, B-carotene,  Alpha-carotene         Prealbumin
Nonprovit  A  carotenoids: Carotenoids,  Lycopene,                   Minerals:  Zinc, Copper,  Copper/zinc  ratio, Zinc/retinol
Cryptoxanthin  (B-), Lutein+zeaxanthin                               ratio
Vit E: alpha-tocopherol,  gamma   tocopherol                         Other  dietary lipids: Cholesterol, Triglycerides
Selenium                                                             Saturated  fatty acids, Monounsaturated  fatty acids,
n-3 fatty acids: EPA  (Eicosapentaenoic),  DHA                       Polyunsaturated  fatty acids
(Docosahexaenoic)                                                    Lipids (as nutrients), Total fat (as nutrients), Total
Magnesium                                                            protein
Vit A: Retinol &Retinol   Binding Protein
Pyridoxic  acid (vit B6)
Phytoestrogen:  Genistein, Daidzein
Chemical  food  contaminants
Polychlorinated  biphenyls  (PCBs)
Phytochemicals
Urine           4-pyridoxic  acid (vit B6) in 24-h urine                             Nitrosamines
Xanthurenic   acid in 24-h urine
Arsenic
Ferritin
Saliva                                                                               Other  dietary lipids: Cholesterol, Triglycerides
Erythrocyte     Linoleic acid                                                        Minerals:  Zinc, Copper
Selenium                                                             Monounsaturated    fatty acids
Superoxide  dismutase                                                n-3 fatty acids: EPA  (Eicosapentaenoic),  DHA
Cadmium                                                              (Docosahexaenoic)
n-6 fatty acids (other than linoleic acid)
Polyunsaturated  fatty acids, Saturated fatty acids
Glutathione  peroxidase
Cancer
$        $         %         $           $                  %
Breast*      90610    8489      9.37      82121       130909    0.5941   17.4    0.1034
Breast       38130    4330      11.35     33801       60861     0.8006   16      0.1281
Prostate     28275    1770      6.26      26505       37566     0.4173   16      0.0668
Lung         82897    20787     25.08     62110       90201     0.4523   74      0.3347
Colorectal   75170    16623     22.11     58546       94684     0.6172   46      0.2839
Melanoma     12541    5085      40.55     7456        40691     4.4573   15.3    0.682
Cancer        Estimated     SD, %   Estimated      Estimated                                Estimated
National              New Cases in   Per-new-                %       %        National
Spending in           2017,          incidence                                Cost-
2017, $M              #              Spending in                              savings,
2017, $                                  $M
All Sites     152901.1      8.49    1688780        90539        ---        ---     ---      25902
Bladder       4543.33       6.41    79030          57489        0.5202     12.42   6.07     276
Brain         5604.18       11.58   23800          235470       0.5232     39.94   17.28    968
Breast        19478.58      7.81    252710         77079        0.5941     17.4    9.37     1562
Cervix        1441.05       10.69   12820          112406       0.5232     34.71   15.37    221
Colorectal    15727.4       9.29    135430         116129       0.6172     46      22.11    3477
Esophagus     1857.85       15.09   16940          109672       0.5232     60.99   24.19    449
Oral          4101.55       9.34    49670          82576        0.5232     62.41   24.62    1010
Kidney        5487.4        13.12   63990          85754        0.5232     33.36   14.86    815
Leukemia      6772.22       8.72    62130          109001       0.5232     39.94   17.28    1170
Lung          13693.22      11.31   222500         61543        0.4523     74      25.08    3434
Lymphoma      15096.07      8.76    80500          187529       0.5232     39.94   17.28    2609
Melanoma      3308.32       10.28   87110          37979        4.4573     15.3    40.55    1342
Ovary         5338.73       11.32   22440          237911       0.5232     61.89   24.46    1306
Pancreas      3040.12       16.06   53670          56645        0.5232     66.45   25.8     784
Prostate      14873.72      5.47    161360         92177        0.4173     16      6.26     931
Stomach       2074.28       11.88   28000          74081        0.5232     60.56   24.06    499
Uterus        2947.42       9.08    61380          48019        0.5232     21.14   9.96     294
Other         27515.67      10.11   275300         99948        0.5232     39.94   17.28    4755
SVM:  One  vs. All Schema
Feature
Set         Kernel              Average Accuracy            StdErr
L1    L2      +      -      =       !      OA
1         R      R     0.88    0.9   0.87    0.88    0.87   0.0289
1+3       L      P     0.83    0.9   0.73    1       0.84   0.0312
1+4       P      P     0.85    0.9   0.67    1       0.84   0.0303
1+5       L      L     0.78    0.8   0.73    1       0.8    0.0339
1+6       R      R     0.85    0.9   0.73    1       0.85   0.0145
2         R      R     0.87    0.8   0.87    0.88    0.86   0.027
2+3       L      R     0.8     0.9   0.93    1       0.86   0.0245
2+4       P      P     0.87    0.9   0.73    1       0.86   0.014
2+5       P      R     0.88    0.9   0.87    1       0.89   0.0222
2+6       R      R     0.85    0.8   0.87    1       0.86   0.031
2+3+6     R      R     0.8     0.7   0.93    1       0.84   0.0204
2+4+6     P      P     0.9     0.7   0.73    1       0.85   0.0177
2+5+6     L      R     0.83    0.7   0.8     1       0.82   0.0235
SVM:   Two vs. Two  Schema
Feature Set Kernel              Average Accuracy            StdErr
L1    L2      +      -      =       !      OA
1         L      P     0.95    0.9   0.6     1       0.88   0.0189
1+3       R      P     0.98    0.9   0.4     1       0.85   0.0261
1+4       L      P     0.95    0.9   0.73    1       0.91   0.0234
1+5       R      P     0.98    0.9   0.4     1       0.85   0.0108
1+6       R      P     0.92    0.8   0.6     1       0.85   0.014
2         R      R     0.98    0.9   0.53    1       0.88   0.0239
2+3       L      P     0.95    0.8   0.4     1       0.82   0.0144
2+4       L      P     0.95    0.9   0.73    1       0.91   0.0118
2+5       R      P     0.97    0.9   0.47    1       0.86   0.0262
2+6       R      P     0.97    0.7   0.53    1       0.85   0.0189
2+3+6     R      L     0.93    0.9   0.53    1       0.85   0.0203
2+4+6     L      L     0.9     0.9   0.73    1       0.88   0.017
2+5+6     L      P     0.97    0.6   0.4     1       0.81   0.0139
Disease               Objective                                             Tools  &  Algorithms  used                  References
Tool: Weka                                  [10]
An  Efficient Prediction of Breast Cancer Data
Breast cancer         using  Data Mining  Techniques.                       Algorithm:SVM   classifier.
Tools: Weka   & MATLAB                      [35]
Diagnosis  of
Heart  Disease  using Data  mining Algorithm          Algorithms:  Decision Stump,
Heart                                                                       Random    Fores  and  LMT  Tree
Disease                                                                     Tool: TANAGRA
[36]
Algorithms:  Naive Bayes,  Decision
Predictive data  mining for medical diagnosis: An     Tree  and ANN.
overview  of Heart disease  prediction.
Traditional Classification algorithms       [37]
Proposed   a system  for Heart disease  prediction    like j48, Naive Bayes, Neural  Networks
using  data mining techniques.                        and  GNP
Decision  tree,                             [39]
Applying  K-nearest  neighbor  in diagnosing Heart    Classification via clustering and Naive
Heart                 disease  patients                                     Bayes
Disease                                                                     Tool: Weka
To  design a predictive model  for heart disease                                                  [40]
detection  to enhance  their liability of             Algorithms:
Heart  disease diagnosis.                             Decision  Tree, Neural  Network  and
Bayesian   Classifier
[38]
Kidney  Stone         Statistical and data mining aspects  on kidney        Classification techniques: Decision
stones:  A systematic review  and meta  analysis.     tree, ANN  and  Naive Bayes
Lung  Cancer                                                                                                            [41],[42]
&                Early prevention  and detection  of skin cancer       Apriori Tid, Decision Tree, K-means
Skin Cancer           and  lung cancer  risk using data mining.             and  Medoid  based  clustering
Liver Disorder        Performance   evaluation  of different data mining    Classification of medical data using        [43]
classification algorithm and predictive analysis.     Bayesian   Ying Yang  (BYY)  Algorithm
Diagnosis  of lung cancer  prediction system using    Rule  based  Classification algorithm       [44]
Lung  Cancer          data  mining classification techniques                like IF-THEN  Rule, Decision  tree,
Bayesian   classifiers and Neural
networks.
Tool: TANAGRA
Kidney  dialysis      Performance   comparison   of three data mining       Algorithms:  ANN,                           [45]
techniques  for predicting kidney dialysis            Decision  Tree(C5),
survivability                                         Logical Regression
Tools:                                      [46]
Acute  Abdominal      An  improved  Medical  Diagnosing  of Acute           C++  &  MATLAB
Pain                  Abdominal   Pain with Decision  Tree                  Algorithms:  CART   & OC1
Tool: Cross  Validation model               [47]
Existence  of
Helicobacter          Helicobacter   pylori microbe  and  detecting  with   Algorithms:
pylori Microbe        data  mining Algorithms                               RBF   Network, Naïve  Bayes,  PART,
Decision  Tree, Logistic Regression.
Classification of Liver Based Diseases   using        Tool: Weka                                  [34]
Liver Based           Random    Tree
Diseases                                                                    Algorithm: Random    Decision  Tree
Tool: MATLAB                                [32]
Clinical Data Analysis  Reveals  Three Sub  types
of Gastric Cancer                                     Algorithm: Hierarchical Clustering.
Gastric Cancer        A  new  algorithm to extract hidden rules of          Tool: MATLAB                                [48]
Gastric cancer  data based  on  Ontology
Algorithm: Mixture  of Apriori Algorithm
and  Ontology
Near Term  Options                                                         Next Term  Options
Strike Price        Call             Put           Difference              Strike Price         Call             Put           Difference
1940            38.45            15.25            23.20                     1940             41.05            18.80            22.25
1945            34.70            16.55            18.15                     1945             37.45            20.20            17.25
1950            31.10            18.25            12.85                     1950             34.05            21.60            12.45
1955            27.60            19.75             7.85                     1955             30.60            23.20            7.40
1960            24.25            21.30             2.95                     1960            27.30            24.90             2.40
1965            21.05            23.15             2.10                     1965             24.15            26.90            2.75
1970            18.10            25.05             6.95                     1970             21.10            28.95            7.85
1975            15.25            27.30            12.05                     1975             18.30            31.05            12.75
1980            12.75            29.75            17.00                     1980             15.70            33.50            17.80
Class of drugs                            Eeg frequencies                                                                      Treatment  indications
Delta            Theta            Alpha            Sigma           Beta/Gamma
(0.5–1.5 Hz)     (5.5–8.5 Hz)     (8.5–11 Hz)      (12–16 Hz)      (21–32 Hz)
Benzodiazepines  (BZDs)                                                     Decrease         Increase        Increase          Anxiety
Sedation
Barbiturates                                                                                 Increase        Increase          Anxiety
Sedation
Epilepsy
Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs)          decrease         Decrease                                          Increase          Depression
SSRI Antidepressants                      decrease                          Increase                                           Depression
Anxiety
OCD
Amphetamines                              decrease         Decrease                                          increase          Somnolence
Narcolepsy
AD/HD
Opiates                                   increase                          decrease                                           Pain
Anticonvulsants                                            increase                                                            Epilepsy
Phenytoin, valproate, carbamazepine
Gamma   hydroxy  butyrate (GHB)           increase                                                                             Cataplexy
Narcolepsy
Classic Neuroleptics                                       increase         decrease         decrease                          Schizophrenia
Psychosis
Počet        Sazba za       Rozpočet  dle    Vyčerpáno  celkem    Odchylka       Odchylka
Náklady                                             Jednotka    jednotek   jednotku (v €)      smlouvy               v €             (v €)          (v %)               Vysvětlete odchylky od schváleného  rozpočtu:
5. Jiné   náklady,    služby
5.1 Publikace**                                                                                                0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.2 Studie, výzkum**                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.3 Audit                                                                                                      0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.4 Evaluační náklady                                                                                          0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.5 Překlad, tlumočníci                                                                                        0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.6 Finanční služby (bankovní garance, atd.)                                                                   0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
5.7 Náklady na konferenci/semináře**                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet    jiných   nákladů   a služeb                                                                                                         0           0.00   €        0.00 €     #DIV/0!
6. Jiné
6.1. (…)                                                                                                       0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.2.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.3.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
6.4.                                                                                                           0               0                  0                  0             0      #DIV/0!
Mezisoučet    jiných   nákladů                                                                                                                    0           0.00   €        0.00 €     #DIV/0!
7.  Mezisoučet        přímých      nákladů     projektu     (1.  - 6.)                                                                     0.00   €           0.00   €
8. Administrativní náklady (maximálně 7 % z 8., přímé způsobilé náklady projektu)                                    #DIV/0!                 0.00 €             0.00 €
9.  Celkové     náklady     (7.  + 8.)                                                                                                     0.00   €           0.00   €
Day                       Week
Features                        NDCG@10      NDCG@7       NDCG@35      NDCG@70
Metadata (excluding hasPR)        0.4114       0.4513       0.4460       0.4068
Metadata                          0.5485       0.6758       0.6148       0.5740
Metadata + Title                  0.6112       0.7615       0.6778       0.6097
All Articles     Metadata + Abstract               0.6116       0.7935       0.6920       0.6284
Metadata + Press Release          0.5957       0.7563       0.6943       0.6344
Metadata + Title + Abstract       0.6114       0.8236       0.6944       0.6280
Metadata + Title + Press Release  0.6209       0.8107       0.7282       0.6472
Title + Abstract + Press Release  0.6273       0.8868       0.7076       0.6416
All Features                      0.6354       0.8841       0.7313       0.6621
Metadata                          0.5101       0.4775       0.4433       0.5307
Metadata + Title                  0.5362       0.4782       0.4584       0.5259
Metadata + Abstract               0.5611       0.5629       0.5085       0.5721
Conditioned on   Metadata + Press Release          0.5841       0.6015       0.5315       0.6009
Press Release   Metadata + Title + Abstract       0.5657       0.6020       0.4936       0.5597
Metadata + Title + Press Release  0.5888       0.6036       0.5350       0.6050
Title + Abstract + Press Release  0.5902       0.5526       0.5251       0.5904
All Features                      0.6065       0.6156       0.5559       0.6106
Dependent        Independent  Variable     Students                                          Comparison
Variable       (Learning Model/Style)        (n)      Mean       σ         F       Sig.
Critical        Experimental group          34       17.62     3.28                      Experimental  >
thinking            Control group            34       14.21     2.87                          Control
ability                                                                 20.80*   .000
Achievement        Experimental group          35       19.26     3.64                      Experimental  >
Control group            35       18.83     3.24                          Control
Independent      Students
Dependent   Variable     Variable          (n)        Mean          σ          F         Sig     Comparison
Critical thinking       Pre-test         34         17.62        3.28                          Experimental
ability           Post-test         34         14.38        2.73                            > Control
20.51*     .000
Pre-test         35         19.26        3.64                          Experimental
Achievement           Post-test         35         12.83        2.62                            > Control
Side                               mean       σ       Satisfaction level   Rank
Content                               4.56     0.12     most  appropriate      1
Learning management   activities                 4.47     0.07        very suitable       3
Learning management   media                     4.50     0.18     most  appropriate      2
Benefits and satisfaction                     4.47     0.07        very suitable       3
Measurement   and evaluation                    4.47     0.07        very suitable       3
Average                               4.49     0.10        very suitable
Disorder                                         Description
Adjustment   (Acute) Insomnia                    The  essential feature of this disorder is the presence of insomnia in association with an iden-
tifiable stressor, such as psychosocial,  physical, or environmental   disturbances. The  sleep
disturbance  has a relatively short duration (days-weeks)  and is expected to resolve when  the
stressor resolves.
Psychophysiological  Insomnia                    The  essential features of this disorder are heightened arousal and learned sleep-preventing as-
sociations. Arousal may  be physiological, cognitive, or emotional, and characterized by muscle
tension, “racing thoughts,” or heightened  awareness  of the environment.  Individuals typically
have  increased concern  about sleep difficulties and their consequences, leading to a “vicious
cycle” of arousal, poor sleep, and frustration.
Paradoxical  Insomnia                            The  essential feature of this disorder is a complaint of severe or nearly “total” insomnia that
greatly exceeds  objective evidence  of sleep disturbance and is not commensurate   with the re-
ported  degree of daytime  deficit. Although paradoxical insomnia  is best diagnosed  with con-
current PSG   and  self-reports, it can be presumptively diagnosed  on  clinical grounds alone.
To  some  extent, “misperception”   of the severity of sleep disturbance  may   characterize all
insomnia  disorders.
Idiopathic Insomnia                              The  essential feature of this disorder is a persistent complaint of insomnia with insidious on-
set during infancy  or early childhood and no  or few extended  periods of sustained remission.
Idiopathic insomnia  is not associated with specific precipitating or perpetuating factors.
Insomnia  Due  to Mental  Disorder               The  essential feature of this disorder is the occurrence of insomnia   that occurs exclusively
during  the course of a mental disorder, and is judged to be caused by that disorder. The insom-
nia is of sufficient severity to cause distress or to require separate treatment. This diagnosis is
not used  to explain insomnia that has a course independent  of the associated mental  disorder,
as is not routinely made   in individuals with the “usual”  severity of sleep symptoms   for an
associated  mental disorder.
Inadequate  Sleep Hygiene                        The  essential feature of this disorder is insomnia associated with voluntary sleep practices or
activities that are inconsistent with good sleep quality and daytime alertness. These practices
and  activities typically produce increased  arousal or directly interfere with sleep, and may
include  irregular sleep scheduling, use of alcohol, caffeine, or nicotine, or engaging in non-
sleep behaviors  in the sleep environment. Some  element  of poor sleep hygiene may  character-
ize individuals with other insomnia  disorders.
Insomnia  Due  to a Drug or Substance            The  essential feature of this disorder is sleep disruption due to use of a prescription medica-
tion, recreational drug, caffeine, alcohol, food, or environmental  toxin. Insomnia  may  occur
during  periods of use/exposure,  or during discontinuation.  When   the identified substance is
stopped,  and after discontinuation effects subside, the insomnia is expected to resolve or sub-
stantially improve.
Insomnia  Due  to Medical  Condition             The  essential feature of this disorder is insomnia  caused  by a  coexisting medical  disorder
or other physiological  factor. Although  insomnia  is commonly   associated  with many  medi-
cal conditions, this diagnosis  should be used  when  the insomnia   causes marked   distress or
warrants  separate clinical attention. This diagnosis is not used to explain insomnia that has a
course  independent  of the associated medical disorder, and is not routinely made in individu-
als with the “usual” severity of sleep symptoms   for an associated medical  disorder.
Insomnia  Not  Due  to Substance or Known        These  two  diagnoses are used  for insomnia disorders that cannot be classified elsewhere  but
Physiologic  Condition,  Unspecified;           are suspected  to be related to underlying mental disorders, psychological  factors, behaviors,
Physiologic  (Organic)  Insomnia,               medical  disorders, physiological states, or substance use or exposure. These  diagnoses  are
Unspecified                                     typically used  when  further evaluation is required to identify specific associated conditions,
Código                               Descrição do                           Dente/face/           Código
TuSS                               procedimento                               Região              TuSS
DIAGNÓSTICO
81000030         Consulta odontológica                                         ASAI               85200115
81000065         Consulta odontológica inicial                                 ASAI               85200123
81000073         Consulta odontológica para avaliação técnica de auditoria     ASAI               85200131
81000111         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  citologia               SEXTANTE              85200140
esfoliativa na região buco-maxilo-facial                                         85200158
81000138         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  material de             SEXTANTE              85200166
biópsia na região buco-maxilo-facial
81000154         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  peça cirúrgica          SEXTANTE              82000034
na região buco-maxilo-facial                                                     82000077
81000170         Diagnóstico anatomopatológico  em  punção na               SEXTANTE              82000085
região buco-maxilo-facial                                                        82000158
84000244         Teste de fluxo salivar                                        ASAI               82000166
uRGêNCIA   E EMERGêNCIA                                              82000174
81000049         Consulta odontológica de Urgência                             ASAI               82000182
81000057         Consulta odontológica de Urgência 24 hs                       ASAI               82000239
82001022         Incisão e Drenagem  extra-oral de abscesso,               HEMI-ARCO              82000247
hematoma   e/ou flegmão da região buco-maxilo-facial                             82000255
82001030         Incisão e Drenagem  intra-oral de abscesso,                 GRUPO                82000263
hematoma   e/ou flegmão  da região buco-maxilo-facial                            82000271
82001197         Redução  simples de luxação de Articulação                    ASAI               82000280
Têmporo-mandibular   (ATM)                                                       82000298
82001251         Reimplante  dentário com contenção                           DENTE               82000301
82001499         Sutura de ferida em região buco-maxilo-facial               GRUPO                82000352
82001650         Tratamento  de alveolite                                     DENTE               82000360
85100048         Colagem  de fragmentos  dentários                            DENTE               82000387
85200034         Pulpectomia                                                  DENTE               82000395
85300063         Tratamento  de abscesso periodontal agudo                   GRUPO                82000786
85300071         Tratamento  de gengivite necrosante aguda - GNA             GRUPO                82000794
85300080         Tratamento  de pericoronarite                               GRUPO                82000808
85400041         Conserto em  prótese parcial removível                    HEMI-ARCO              82000816
(exclusivamente em  consultório)                                                 82000832
85400068         Conserto em  prótese total                                  ARCADA
(exclusivamente em  consultório)                                                 82000859
85400467         Recimentação  de trabalhos protéticos                        DENTE               82000875
RADIOLOGIA                                                     82000883
81000383         Radiografia oclusal                                           ASAI               82000891
81000278         Fotografia                                                HEMI-ARCO              82000905
81000294         Levantamento  Radiográfico (Exame  Radiodôntico)              ASAI               82000913
81000375         Radiografia interproximal - bite-wing                     HEMI-ARCO              82001073
81000405         Radiografia panorâmica de                                     ASAI               82001103
mandíbula/maxila  (ortopantomografia)                                            82001170
81000421         Radiografia periapical                                      GRUPO                82001189
Prevenção                                                    82001286
84000031         Aplicação de cariostático                                    DENTE               82001294
84000058         Aplicação de selante - técnica invasiva                      DENTE               82001510
84000074         Aplicação de selante de fóssulas e fissuras                  DENTE               82001529
84000090         Aplicação tópica de flúor                                     ASAI               82001545
84000139         Atividade educativa em saúde bucal                            ASAI
84000163         Controle de biofilme (placa bacteriana)                       ASAI               82001553
84000198         Profilaxia: polimento coronário                               ASAI
85300055         Remoção   dos fatores de retenção do                       SEXTANTE              82001588
Biofilme Dental (Placa Bacteriana)
87000016         Atividade educativa em odontologia para pais e/ou             ASAI               82001596
cuidadores de pacientes com necessidades especiais
87000024         Atividade educativa para pais e/ou cuidadores                 ASAI               82001618
DENTíSTICA
85100013         Capeamento   pulpar direto                                   DENTE               82001634
85100064         Faceta direta em resina fotopolimerizável                 DENTE/  FACE
85100099         Restauração de amálgama   - 1 face                        DENTE/  FACE           82001642
85100102         Restauração de amálgama   - 2 faces                       DENTE/  FACE
85100110         Restauração de amálgama   - 3 faces                       DENTE/  FACE           82001707
85100129         Restauração de amálgama   - 4 faces                       DENTE/  FACE           82001715
85100196         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 1 face           DENTE/  FACE
85100200         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 2 faces          DENTE/  FACE           81000014
85100218         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 3 faces          DENTE/  FACE           83000020
85100226         Restauração em  resina fotopolimerizável 4 faces          DENTE/  FACE           83000046
ou mais faces                                                                    83000062
85400017         Ajuste Oclusal por acréscimo                                ARCADA               83000089
85400025         Ajuste Oclusal por desgaste seletivo                        ARCADA               83000127
85400211         Núcleo de preenchimento                                      DENTE               83000151
PERIODONTIA                                                 87000032
82000212         Aumento   de coroa clínica                                  GRUPO
82000336         Cirurgia odontológica a retalho                            SEXTANTE
82000417         Cirurgia periodontal a retalho                             SEXTANTE              85400076
82000557         Cunha  proximal                                             GRUPO                85400084
82000921         Gengivectomia                                              SEXTANTE              85400114
82000948         Gengivoplastia                                             SEXTANTE              85400149
82001464         Sepultamento  radicular                                      DENTE               85400220
85300020         Imobilização dentária em dentes permanentes                 GRUPO                85400262
85300039         Raspagem   sub-gengival/alisamento radicular               SEXTANTE              85400432
85300047         Raspagem   supra-gengival                                    AS; AI              85400440
ENDODONTIA                                                  85400459
85200042         Pulpotomia                                                   DENTE               85400556
85200077         Remoção   de núcleo intrarradicular                          DENTE               87000040
85200093         Retratamento  endodôntico  birradicular                      DENTE               87000059
85200107         Retratamento  endodôntico  multirradicular                   DENTE               87000067
Exact     Rescaled    Rounded   to 0.5
(0(cid:3)100) (0(cid:3)10) (0(cid:3)10)
Joint involvement*
1 large                          0         0               0
(cid:5)1(cid:3)10 large, asymmetric 10.2   1.02            1
(cid:5)1(cid:3)10 large, symmetric 16.1    1.61            1.5
1(cid:3)3 small                 21.2       2.12            2
4(cid:3)10 small                28.8       2.88            3
(cid:5)10, including at least 1 50.8       5.08            5
small joint
Serology†
Negative  RF  and                0         0               0
negative ACPA
Low-positive  RF  or            22.0       2.20            2
low-positive ACPA
High-positive  RF  or           33.9       3.39            3.5
high-positive ACPA
Acute-phase   reactants‡
Normal   CRP   and               0         0               0
normal  ESR
Abnormal    CRP  or              5.9       0.59            0.5
abnormal  ESR
Duration  of symptoms§
(cid:4)6 weeks                   0         0               0
(cid:2)6 weeks                   9.3       0.93            1
Site               Absolute   percentage   increase  in        Survival  rate 2010–2014
survival rate 2000–2004     and  2010–
2014
Cervix             +14.3%:   China                             60–69%:   Canada,   USA, Brazil, Puerto Rico, China, Hong
+8–10%:   India, Bulgaria, Estonia,         Kong  SAR,  Singapore,  Israel, Turkey, 18 countries in
Switzerland                                 Europe,  Australia, New  Zealand
+4–7%:   Cuba,  Israel, Japan, Republic     50–59%:   Argentina,  Ecuador,  Martinique, Peru, Uruguay,
of Korea, Denmark,   Ireland, Lithuania,    India, Kuwait, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Poland, Russian
Norway,  the United  Kingdom,   Poland      Federation,  Malta
Ovary              +20%:   Japan                               40–49%:   Canada,   USA, Singapore,  China,  Taiwan
+10–20%:    Estonia, Latvia                 (China), Republic of Korea,  Japan, Israel, Turkey,
Denmark,   Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Norway,
+5–10%:   USA,  Israel, Republic of         Sweden,   Portugal, Spain, Austria, Belgium, France,
Korea, Taiwan  (China), Denmark,            Germany,   Switzerland, Australia
Iceland, Ireland, Norway, Sweden,
Portugal, Spain, Bulgaria, Poland,          30–39%:   Argentina,  Brazil, Ecuador, Puerto Rico, Kuwait,
France, Switzerland, Australia              Thailand, Ireland, Lithuania, the United Kingdom,
Croatia, Italy, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Poland,
Russian  Federation, Slovakia, the Netherlands,  New
Zealand
<30%:   Malta, India
Prostate           +>20%:    Japan, Republic  of Korea,        ≈100%:    Puerto  Rico, Martinique, USA
Malaysia, Denmark,   Estonia, Ireland,      90–100%:   Brazil, Costa Rica, Canada,  Israel, Japan,
Latvia, Lithuania, the United Kingdom,      Republic  of Korea, Iceland, Ireland, Finland, Latvia,
Slovenia, Bulgaria, Czech  Republic,        Lithuania, Norway,  Sweden,   Italy, Portugal, Spain,
Poland                                      Austria, Belgium, France,  Germany,  Australia, New
+10–20%:    Israel, Taiwan (China),         Zealand
Thailand, Finland, Iceland, Norway,         80–89%:   Argentina,  Ecuador,  Uruguay,  Malaysia,
Sweden,   Croatia, Italy, Malta, Spain,     Singapore,  Taiwan  (China), Kuwait, Turkey, Denmark,
France, Germany,   the Netherlands,         Estonia, the United  Kingdom,  Croatia, Malta, Slovenia,
Switzerland, Australia                      Czech  Republic,  the Netherlands,  Switzerland
+5–10%:   Brazil, Ecuador, Canada,          70–80%:    Russian  Federation, Poland, Romania,   Slovakia
China, Turkey, Austria, Portugal, New
Zealand                                     50–70%:   China,  Mauritius, Bulgaria, Thailand
<50%:   India
Brain  (adults)    +6–10%:   USA,  China, Republic  of         >40%:   Croatia
Korea, Singapore,  Denmark,   Estonia,      30–40%:   Canada,   USA, Puerto  Rico, Martinique,
Ireland, the United Kingdom,   Malta,       Singapore,  China, Republic  of Korea, Israel, Kuwait,
Spain, the Netherlands,  Australia          Turkey, Denmark,   Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Norway,
+3–5%:   Martinique,  Canada,  Israel,      Sweden,   Belgium, Germany,   Switzerland, Australia
Iceland, Latvia, Norway, Sweden,            20–29%:   Chile, Ecuador,  Taiwan  (China), Iceland, Latvia,
Croatia, Italy, France, Switzerland, New    the United  Kingdom,   Italy, Malta, Portugal, Slovenia,
Zealand                                     Spain, Czech  Republic,  Poland, Russian  Federation,
Slovakia, Austria, France, the Netherlands, New   Zealand
14.7%:  Thailand
POPULATION   SIZE (% OF  PATIENTS)
LUNG  CANCER               COLORECTAL    CANCER              BREAST  CANCER
STUDY  POPULATION                                                4,680 (100%)
(BEGINNING  OF YEAR)               3,425 (100%)                                                 26,755 (100%)
END  OF YEAR 1                     1,994 (57%)                    4,534 (77%)                   21,587 (81%)
END  OF YEAR 2                      996 (28%)                     2,730 (46%)                   14,193 (53%)
END  OF YEAR 3                      625 (18%)                     1,872 (32%)                   10,029 (37%)
Bacillus anthracis                                               Bacteria
Botulinum  neurotoxins (more than 0.5 mg)                        Toxin
Botulinum  neurotoxin producing species  of Clostridium          Bacteria
Brucella abortus                                                 Bacteria
Brucella melitensis                                              Bacteria
Brucella suis                                                    Bacteria
Burkholderia mallei (formerly Pseudomonas   mallei)              Bacteria
Burkholderia pseudomallei  (formerly Pseudomonas
pseudomallei)                                                    Bacteria
Clostridium perfringens epsilon toxin (more than 100 mg)         Toxin
Coccidioides immitis                                             Fungi
Coxiella burnetii                                                Bacteria
Eastern equine  encephalitis virus                               Virus
Francisella tularensis                                           Bacteria
Hendra  virus                                                    Virus
Nipah  virus                                                     Virus
Rift Valley fever virus (non-vaccine strain (MP-12))             Virus
Shigatoxin (more  than 100 mg)                                   Toxin
Staphylococcal  enterotoxins (more than 5 mg)                    Toxin
T-2 toxin (more than 1,000 mg)                                   Toxin
Venezuelan   equine encephalitis virus (non-vaccine strain (TC-
83))                                                             Virus
Liberobacter africanus                                            Bacteria
Liberobacter asiaticus                                            Bacteria
Peronosclerospora   philippinensis                                Fungi
Phakopsora   pachyrhizi                                           Fungi
Plum  pox potyvirus                                               Virus
Ralstonia solanacearum,   race 3, biovar 2                        Bacteria
Sclerophthora  rayssiae var. zeae                                 Fungi
Synchytrium  endobioticum                                         Fungi
Xanthomonas    oryzae pv. oryzicola                               Bacteria
Xylella fastidiosa (citrus variegated chlorosis strain)           Bacteria
State               School                                                                                                    City                1st Class
Alabama             Alabama   College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                                Dothan              2013
Alabama             Edward   Via College of Osteopathic Medicine   – Auburn  Campus                                           Auburn              2015
Arizona             A.T. Still University School of Osteopathic Medicine in Arizona                                           Mesa                2007
Arizona             Arizona  College of Osteopathic  Medicine  of Midwestern  University                                      Glendale            1996
California          Touro  University College of Osteopathic Medicine-California                                              Vallejo             1997
California          Western  University of Health Sciences/College  of Osteopathic Medicine  of the Pacific                   Pomona              1978
Colorado            Rocky  Vista University College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                  Parker              2008
Florida             Lake  Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine  at Bradenton                                                  Bradenton           2004
Florida             Nova  Southeastern   University College of Osteopathic Medicine                                           Davie               1981
Georgia             Philadelphia  College of Osteopathic Medicine   - Georgia Campus                                          Suwanee             2005
Illinois            Chicago  College  of Osteopathic Medicine  of Midwestern   University                                     Downers   Grove     1900
Indiana             Marian  University College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                       Indianapolis        2013
Iowa                Des  Moines  University College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                  Des Moines          1898
Kentucky            University of Pikeville Kentucky College School  of Osteopathic Medicine                                  Pikeville           1997
Maine               University of New  England  College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                              Biddeford           1978
Michigan            Michigan   State University College of Osteopathic Medicine                                               East Lansing,       1969
Detroit,            2009
Clinton             2009
Mississippi         William  Carey University College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                Hattiesburg         2010
Missouri            A.T. Still University - Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine                                        Kirksville          1892
Missouri            Kansas  City University of Medicine and Biosciences  College of Osteopathic Medicine                      Kansas  City        1916
Nevada              Touro  University Nevada  College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                Henderson           2004
New   Jersey        Rowan   University School  of Osteopathic Medicine                                                        Stratford           1977
(formerly University of Medicine  and Dentistry of New  Jersey  - School of Osteopathic Medicine)
New   Mexico        Burrell College of Osteopathic  Medicine  at New  Mexico  State University                                Las Cruces          2016
New   York          New   York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine                                        Old Westbury        1977
New   York          Touro  College of Osteopathic Medicine   – New  York                                                      Manhattan,          2007
Middletown          2014
North  Carolina     Campbell  University College  of Osteopathic Medicine                                                     Buies Creek         2013
Ohio                Ohio  University Heritage College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                Athens,             1976
Dublin,             2014
Cleveland           2015
Oklahoma            Oklahoma   State University Center for Health Sciences  College of Osteopathic  Medicine                  Tulsa               1974
Oregon              Western  University of Health Sciences/College  of Osteopathic Medicine  of the Pacific - Northwest       Lebanon             2011
Pennsylvania        Lake  Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine                                                                Erie,               1993
Seton Hill          2009
Pennsylvania        Philadelphia  College of Osteopathic Medicine                                                             Philadelphia        1899
South  Carolina     Edward   Via College of Osteopathic Medicine   – Carolinas Campus                                         Spartanburg         2011
Tennessee           Lincoln Memorial   University–DeBusk   College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                   Harrogate           2007
Texas               University of North Texas  Health Science  Center at Fort Worth/Texas  College of Osteopathic  Medi-      Fort Worth          1970
cine
Virginia            Edward   Via College of Osteopathic Medicine   – Virginia Campus                                          Blacksburg          2003
Virginia            Liberty University College of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                       Lynchburg           2014
Washington          Pacific Northwest  University of Health Sciences  College of Osteopathic  Medicine                        Yakima              2008
West  Virginia      West  Virginia School of Osteopathic  Medicine                                                            Lewisburg           1974
*Note http://www.osteopathic.org/inside-aoa/accreditation/predoctoral%20accreditation/Documents/new-and-developing-colleges-of-osteopathic-medicine-and-campuses.pdf that several other colleges of osteopathic medicine not listed here are under consideration for accreditation. Find more information here:
Calls                             Puts
Strike
Bid              Ask              Bid             Ask
1430            531.30           534.80            0.05            0.40
1435            526.30           529.80            0.15            0.40
1440            521.30           524.80            0.05            0.30
1445            516.30           519.80            0.05            0.40
1450            511.30           514.80            0.15            0.25
1455            506.30           509.80            0.05            0.45
1460            501.30           504.80            0.05            0.45
1465            496.30           499.80            0.05            0.45
1470            491.30           494.80            0.05            0.45
1475            486.30           489.90            0.15            0.25
1480            481.30           484.90            0.05            0.45
1485            476.30           479.90            0.20            0.50
1490            471.30           474.90            0.05            0.30
1495            466.40           469.90            0.05            0.50
1500            461.40           464.90            0.25            0.40
1505            456.40           459.90            0.30            0.35
1510            451.40           454.90            0.05            0.55
1515            446.40           449.90            0.05            0.55
1520            441.40           445.00            0.10            0.60
1525            436.40           440.00            0.30            0.40
1530            431.40           435.00            0.05            0.60
1535            426.40           430.00            0.10            0.65
1540            421.40           425.00            0.10            0.65
1545            416.50           420.00            0.10            0.65
1550            411.50           415.00            0.30            0.70
1555            406.50           410.10            0.15            0.70
1560            401.50           405.10            0.15            0.70
1565            396.50           400.10            0.15            0.70
1570            391.50           395.10            0.20            0.75
1575            386.50           390.10            0.35            0.75
1580            381.50           385.10            0.25            0.80
1585            376.60           380.20            0.25            0.80
1590            371.60           375.20            0.25            0.80
1595            366.60           370.20            0.25            0.80
1600            361.60           365.20            0.50            0.85
1605            356.60           360.30            0.30            0.85
1610            351.60           355.30            0.35            0.90
1615            346.70           350.30            0.35            0.90
1620            341.70           345.30            0.35            0.90
1625            336.70           340.40            0.40            0.95
1630            331.70           335.40            0.40            0.95
1635            326.70           330.40            0.45            1.00
1640            321.80           325.40            0.45            1.00
1645            316.80           320.50            0.50            1.05
1650            311.80           315.50            0.50            0.85
1655            306.80           310.50            0.55            1.10
1660            301.90           305.60            0.55            1.10
1665            296.90           300.60            0.60            1.15
Calls                             Puts
Strike
Bid              Ask              Bid             Ask
1635            326.90           329.60            0.90            1.05
1640            321.90           324.70            0.95            1.05
1645            316.90           319.70            0.95            1.10
1650            312.00           314.70            1.00            1.15
1655            307.00           309.80            1.05            1.15
1660            302.10           304.80            1.10            1.20
1665            297.10           299.90            1.15            1.25
1670            292.20           294.90            1.15            1.30
1675            287.20           289.90            1.20            1.35
1680            282.30           285.00            1.25            1.40
1685            277.30           280.10            1.30            1.45
1690            272.40           275.10            1.35            1.50
1695            267.40           270.20            1.40            1.55
1700            262.50           265.20            1.45            1.60
1705            257.50           260.30            1.50            1.70
1710            252.60           255.30            1.60            1.75
1715            247.70           250.40            1.65            1.80
1720            242.70           245.50            1.70            1.90
1725            237.80           240.60            1.75            1.95
1730            232.90           235.60            1.85            2.00
1735            228.00           230.70            1.90            2.10
1740            223.40           225.30            2.00            2.20
1745            218.50           220.40            2.10            2.25
1750            213.60           215.50            2.20            2.35
1755            208.70           210.60            2.30            2.45
1760            203.80           205.70            2.40            2.55
1765            198.90           200.80            2.50            2.65
1770            194.00           195.90            2.65            2.80
1775            189.20           191.10            2.75            2.90
1780            184.30           185.80            2.90            3.10
1785            179.40           180.90            3.00            3.20
1790            174.60           176.10            3.10            3.40
1795            169.70           171.20            3.30            3.60
1800            164.90           166.40            3.50            3.70
1805            160.10           161.60            3.70            3.90
1810            155.30           156.70            3.80            4.10
1815            150.50           152.00            4.10            4.30
1820            145.70           147.20            4.30            4.50
1825            140.90           142.40            4.50            4.80
1830            136.20           137.70            4.80            5.00
1835            131.50           132.90            5.00            5.30
1840            126.80           128.20            5.30            5.60
1845            122.10           123.50            5.60            5.90
1850            117.40           118.80            5.90            6.20
1855            112.80           114.20            6.30            6.60
1860            108.20           109.60            6.60            6.90
1865            103.60           105.00            7.00            7.30
1870            99.00            100.40            7.50            7.80
Vyčerpáno z  Vyčerpáno z
Číslo  projektu:                               Částka podle  Vyčerpáno (€) konkr. položky celkových
smlouvy (v €)                  (%)      nákladů (v %)
Finanční  příspěvek   žadatele  (kofinancování):
0            0   #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
Přidělený  příspěvek   od NROS    v této žádosti  (požadovaný    grant):
0            0   #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
Příspěvek(y)   z jiných evropských    institucí
nebo  členských   států  EU:
Název organizace:
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
Příspěvek   od jiných  organizací:
Okolnosti:
Název organizace:
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
CELKEM     PŘÍSPĚVKŮ:                                                                      0 €          0 €
Přímé výnosy (příjmy) z projektu:
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
0            0    #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
Celkový    součet   ( = celkové způsobilé náklady
projektu, tj. kapitola 9 v předchozím listu):                                              0 €          0 €   #DIV/0!      #DIV/0!
CLASS  (DRUG)   [Neuromodulator    Effected]    1/2 LIFE                       Next  Day  Sleepiness   Next  Day  Effects On           Toxicity And/Or
[Clinical Trials]       Performance   & Driving  Tests  Significant Side Effects
Antidepressants                                 10–20  HR.                     Significant             Significant With                Anticholinergic,
- tricyclics (amitriptyline etc.)                                                                      Minimal  Study                  Respiratory  suppression
[serotonin]                                                                                                                          in overdose
- Atypicals                                     traza- done  (8 h)             Significant             Significant With                Respiratory  Suppression
(trazadone, mirtazapine)                        mirtaza-pin  20–40  HR.                                Minimal  Study                  In Overdose
[serotonin]
H1  antihistamine                               2–12  HR.                      Significant             Significant -                   Confusion   [Black Boxed
Diphinhydramine,                                                                                       Multiple studies                For The  Elderly]
hydroxyzine,  triprolidine)
[histamine]
Antipsychotic                                   6–8 HR.                        Significant             Significant with                Potentially persistent
- Olanzapine                                                                                           minimal  study                  extra-pyramidal
[histamine]                                                                                                                            Side effects
- Doxepin                                       1/2–15  h. (dose based)        Significant             Significant With                Potentially persistent
[histamine, orexin]                             active metabolite                                      Minimal  Study                  extrapyramidal
Side effects
Gaba  agonists                                  7–10  HR.                      Significant             Significant                     Disinhibition
- medium   ½  life benzodiazepi-nes                                                                    Multiple studies
(estalolam, clonazepam,   temezepam,   etc.)
[GABA]
- Long  ½ life benzodiazepi-  nes               Up  To 11 Days                 Significant             Significant                     Disinhibition
(flurezepam,  diazepam,  etc.)                                                                         Multiple studies                Falls in the elderly
[GABA]
Orexin  antagonists                             10–22  HR.                     Significant             Significant                     Unknown
(suvorexant)                                                                                                                           New   agent
[orexin]
Anxiety  Prior to   Anxiety During      Change      Calming    Clear                                      Symptoms     During    Side    Other Prescription
Patients      Procedure          Procedure        in Anxiety    Effect    Mind     Symptoms    Prior to Procedure         Procedure        Effects      Anxiolytic
D             10                  1               -9         Yes       Yes       Dry Mouth  1, Tachycardia 1,        Numbness   1        No             No
Short Breath 1, Headache   1
Dry Mouth  1, Nausea  1,
E              7                  3               -4         Yes       Yes                                                               No         Lorazepam
Trembling  1
Tachycardia  1, Headache  1,
F              4                  1               -3         Yes       Yes               Trembling  1                                    No             No
G              8                  6               -2         Yes       Yes       Dry Mouth  1, Tachycardia  1        Numbness   1        No         Alprazolam
Dry Mouth  3,
Dry Mouth  3, Tachycardia 1,       Tachycardia  2,
H              7                  5               -2         Yes       Yes    Sweating  2, Nausea  2, Numbness   Sweating  1, Nausea     No         Alprazolam
3, Short Breath 2, Headache  2,    1, Numbness   2,
Trembling  1               Short Breath 1,
Headache   1
Dry Mouth  1, Nausea  1,
I              2                  0               -2         Yes       Yes        Numbness   1, Headache   1                             No         Duloxetine
J              5                  6               1          Yes       Yes       Dry Mouth  1, Tachycardia 1,        Dry Mouth  2,       No          Sertraline
Sweating 1, Numbness   1         Tachycardia  1
Dry Mouth  2,
Dry Mouth  3, Tachycardia 1,       Tachycardia  2,
K              6                  7               1           No       Yes                Nausea  1,                  Nausea  1,         No             No
Short Breath 1, Trembling  2       Short Breath 1,
Trembling  1
Ave  or %        6.13               3.63             -2.50      87.5%     100%                                                               0%           62.5%
Anxiety on a 10-point scale (10 is severe); Symptoms on a 0 – 3 point scale (0 none, 1 mild, 2 moderate, 3 severe). Patients D, E, F, G, H, and I were responders; Patients
J and K were  non-responders.
Articles cited Odds  ratio
Category                (%)         (OA/sub)     (cid:7)2 P (cid:4) (cid:7)2
All journals            74.1          0.96      0.11     0.74
Medical                 85.2          1.21      0.35     0.55
Life sciences           74.5          0.87      1.10     0.29
Multidisciplinary
sciences              97.5          1.26      0.05     0.83
Social sciences         35.6          1.36      1.19     0.28
Humanities              10.0          0.43      0.96     0.33
Exposure                Measured      Valid?    Reason  (Willett)                                Reason  (Margetts  / Nelson)
in
Copper  : Superoxide     Erythrocy    Yes     Among   four men  fed a copper deficient diet for
dismutase                te                   4 months, erythrocyte S.O.D  declined for all 4.
Copper  repletion restored S.O.D levels
Copper                   Plasma/se    No      No  (p 211): large number of lifestyle
rum                  factors/pathologic conditions probably alter
blood copper  concentrations (smoking,
infections)
Copper                   Hair         No      No  evidence (212) and data suggests influenced    No. Copper-dependent   enzyme  superoxide
by external contamination                          dismutase in erythrocytes and copper-protein
complex  caeroplasmin  in serum have been
shown  to be associated with copper intake, but
these markers may  be influenced by nondietary
factors (p 193)
Selenium                 Blood        Yes     Yes. Erythrocyte is probably superior to serum     Yes (p 193). Relationship between  selenium
compone              as                                                 intake and biomarkers is reasonably good.
nts                  measure  of long-term intake (p 206). Lower        Urine: reasonable marker, plasma  reflects intake
Toenails             influence of environment  in countries where       provided that the range of variation is large. Red
wearing  shoes is norm (toenails). Selenium        cell and glutathione perioxidase are
status is reduced by smoking, also in older        markers of longer-term intakes. Hair and
persons (p 207); Relationship of selenium with     toenails are alternative possibilities, although
disease may  be modified by other antioxidants     contamination  of hair samples with shampoo
(vit E and C)                                      must be controlled for
Glutathione              Plasma       No      Is poor measure of selenium  intake among
perioxidase              Serum                persons with moderate  and high exposure  (p
Erythrocy            206)
tes
Blood
Material                 Density,  Ibift®                 Thermal                 Thermal   Resistance   (R),            Permeance,
(kg/m)                     Conductivity                           inch,                       Porms®
(k), BTU  = inwhrs ft?  «oF         °F  ft2* hr/BTU  «in.
‘Granular  Fills
Vermiculite              4.0- 6.0 (64 - 96)                   O44                             227                              ta
Perfite               2.0 - 11,0 (32 - 176)             O.27  - 0.42                      24-37                              na
Rigid Boards
Extruded   Polystyrene         4:8 - 3.5 (20-56)                    0.20                             5.0                            0.83
Expanded   Polystyrene         1.0 - 2,0 (16 - 32}              0.29  - 0.26                     3.85 - 4.35                     050-017
Polyisocyanurate                  2.0 (32)                        O44                             7.04                             nla
(with facers)
Foamed-in-place
Polyurethane                    16-25                       016-018                          6.25 - 6.56                         na
Polyicynene                      nia                           0.25                              4                              na
Foamed    Minerals               2.25  (36)                       0.26                             3.9                             nia
Amine-plast                    0.8 (13)                        0.20                             49                              nia
Name                          Country                            Affiliation
Zeba  AZIZ                    Pakistan                           Hameed   Latif Hospital
Jolanta BILIŃSKA              Poland                             Jonscher  Hospital, Lodz, Poland
Christopher BOOTH             Canada                             Kingston  Health Sciences Centre
María Elena CABRERA                                              Department   of Internal Medicine East
Chile
CONTRERAS                                                        University of Chile
Oncology   Institute of Southern
Franco CAVALLI                Switzerland
Switzerland, Hospital San Giovanni
Noreen  CHAN                  Singapore                          National University Cancer Institute
Elisabeth G.E. DE VRIES       Netherlands                        University of Groningen
Herbert  Irving Pavilion, Columbia
Tito A. FOJO                  United States of America
University, Department  of Surgery
James  LOVE                   United States of America           Knowledge   Ecology  International
Keymanthri  MOODLEY           South Africa                       Centre  for Medical Ethics and Law
Faculty of Medicine, Chiang  Mai
Sumitra THONGPRASERT          Thailand                           University
National Center  for Radiotherapy, Korle
Verna  Dnk VANDERPUYE         Ghana
Bu Teaching  Hospital
Approach           Description                  Method   of price determination
Tendering  and     Set prices based  on the     1.  Identify and specify requirements  for the supply of medicines, including: volume;
negotiation        best offer received from         timing and  frequency  of supply; quality assurance; and cap expenditure
tenderers                    2.  Request  for tender from  the market (open  tender) or preselected/qualified
suppliers (closed tender)
3.  Select the winning tender, and  price by extension
Profit control     Set and  enforce levels of   1.  Determine   the points along the supply chain at which  price control can be
mark-ups   in the supply         enforced:  wholesalers, pharmacies,  dispensing doctors, and  dispensaries
and  distribution chain      2.  Determine/negotiate   the structure and magnitude   of mark-ups  (e.g. fixed or
regressive percentage)
3.  Enforce  and monitor  mark-ups
Set limits on the level      1.  Determine/negotiate   levels of price and frequency of price increase acceptable  to
and  frequency  of price         the health system
increase                     2.  Set threshold levels
3.  Enforce  and monitor  price increase
Other              •  Setting ceiling price     For MEA
approaches            (only)                    1.  Negotiate  and  specify conditions directly relating to finance (price ± volume) or
•  Using  Managed   Entry        performance   (clinical outputs or pre-agreed health outcomes)
Agreement    (MEA)
2.  Implement   MEAs  according  to agreed  terms and  conditions
Date         Time            Blood Pressure            Pulse Rate                             Comments
25/1/2005   08:30am       120/70                     75                  Normal
26/1/2005   10:30am       155/82                     85                  High  Blood   Presssure
27/1/2005   7:00pm        90/60                      58                  Low   Blood   Pressure
Model  Letter          Description                          Supporting  Theory/Discussion
P – Step 1     Preparation for learning    (Gulicheva, Lisin, Osipova, & Khabdullin 2017; Paul et al., 1997;
management              Thaiposri & Wannapiroon,  2015; Wichadee, 2014; Schroeder,
Minocha, &  Schneider, 2010).
U – Step 2        Understanding and        (Bruner, 1976; Dewey, 1910; Halpern, 1993; Hove, 2011; McPeck,
practice                            1981; University of Leeds, n/d).
C – Step 3      Cooperative  solutions             (Johnson &  Johnson, 1994; Vijayaratnam, 2009)
S – Step 4      Sharing new knowledge     (Innis, 2015; Leesa-nguansuk, 2015; Mandernach, 2006; University
of Leeds, n/d).
C – Step 5         Creation of new             (Dewey, 1910; Heick, 2014; Innis, 2015, Sternberg, 1997).
knowledge
Level of action required          Time  frame for action*                    Proposed  actions taken by:
Inter-                                                                    Health care
Option                                         Local   Regional   National  national   Short   Medium      Long    Government^     Payer^    Industry   professional Patients
(a) Strengthening   pricing policies
(a.1) Improving the consistency of policies                                                                                              
across health and other sectors
(a.2) Designing differential pricing sensitive                                                                                   
to health systems’ ability to pay
(a.3) Enhancing health system ability to
review and adjust prices, and to withdraw
                                                                                            
funding for superseded  or less cost-
effective medicines if required
(a.4) Enforcing price caps for cancer
medicines, with or without progressive                                                                                            
reduction of prices over time
(a.5) Creating competition among
substitutable cancer medicines                                                                                                                                  
(b) Improving   efficiency
(b.1) Prioritizing the selection of medicines                                                                                                         
with high(er) clinical value
(b.2) Considering the costs of model of
care as part of the pricing approach                                                                                              
(b.3) Considering managed   entry
agreements  for expenditure control only in                                                                                       
specific cases
(b.4) Avoiding the use or establishment of
fund earmarked  for the provision of                                                                                              
cancer medicines
Name                           Country            Affiliation
Kamaruzaman    BIN SALEH       Malaysia           Ministry of Health (Kementerian Kesihatan  Malaysia)
Moses  CHISALE                 Malawi             Central Medical Stores Trust
Avram  DENBURG                 Canada             University of Toronto and The  Hospital for Sick Children
(SickKids)
Gihan  Hamdy   EL-SISI         Egypt              The Ministry of Health and Population
Saad  JADDOUA                  Jordan             King Hussein Cancer  Center
Republic of
Jinsoo LEE                                        Korea National Cancer  Center
Korea
Miriam  NAARENDORP             Suriname           Ministry of Health (Ministerie van Volksgezondheid)
Sakthivel SELVERAJ             India              Public Health Foundation  of India
Netnapis  SUCHONWANICH         Thailand           National Health Security Office
The United
Richard SULLIVAN                                  Institute of Cancer Policy, Kings College London
Kingdom
Fatima SULEMAN                 South Africa       University of KwaZulu-Natal
Fola TAYO                      Nigeria            Caleb University
Gesundheit  Österreich GmbH
Sabine VOGLER                  Austria            WHO   Collaborating Centre  for Pharmaceutical Pricing
and Reimbursement    Policies
Andrew  WILSON                 Australia          Australian Government   Department  of Health
Nutrient               Biologic       Val./reproduc     Coef      Details
tissue
Retinol                Plasma         Validity          0.17      Borderline Correlation between  pre-formed  vit A intake and plasma retinol.
However   plasma  retinol is a recognized marker of vit A nutritional status for
undernourished  populations
Beta-carotene                                           0.51      Correlation between  plasma  beta-carotene level (averaged from 2 samples
taken 1 week  apart) and a 7-day diet record estimate of beta-carotene in 98 non-
smoking  women   (Willett, p 194).
0.38      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of carotene and plasma
betacarotene in 902 adult females. In males (n=880): r=0.20 (Margetts, table
7.9a).
Plasma         Reproducibility   0.45      Correlation for carotene (80%  beta-carotene, 20% alpha-carotene) between  two
measurements   taken 6 years apart (Willett, p 194).
Beta-cryptoxanthin     Plasma         Validity          0.49      Correlation between  plasma  beta-carotene level (averaged from 2
Lutein+zeaxanthin      Plasma         Validity          0.31      samples  taken 1 week apart) and a 7-day diet record estimate of beta carotene
Lycopene               Plasma         Validity          0.50      in 98 non-smoking   women  (Willett, p 194)
Alpha-carotene         Plasma         Validity          0.58
Alpha-carotene         Plasma         Validity          0.43      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of carotene and plasma
alphacarotene  in 902 adult females. In males (n=880): r=0.41 (Margetts, table
7.9a).
Carotenoids            Plasma         Reproducibility   !080      Within-person  variability of plasma levels over 1 week (Willett, p 194).
Vitamin  E             Plasma         Validity          0.53      Lipid-adjusted alpha-tocopherol  measurements  and  estimated intake (incl.
supplements).  After excluding supplement  users: r=0.35 (Willett, p 196)
Plasma         Reproducibility   0.65      Unadjusted  repeated measures  over a 6-year period (p 188). Adjusting for
serum  cholesterol reduced correlation to r=0.46 (p 188). Also r=0.65 was found
over a 4-year period in 105 adults in Finland (Willett, p 196).
Plasma         Validity          0.20      Cross-sectional correlation between dietary intake of vit E and plasma vit E in
880  adult males. In females (n=906): r=0.14 (Margetts, table 7.9a)
Criteria                                  Measures                                             Sources
Overall  clinical benefit              Efficacy – health impact based  on mortality,     Clinical Guidance Report  from relevant Clinical
morbidity, and quality of life. Assessment of     Guidance  Panel.
direction of effect, magnitude, and level of      Systemic literature reviews and registered
uncertainty                                       clinician input.
Safety – frequency  and severity of adverse
events
Burden  of Illness – incidence of disease in
population
Need  – current availability of effective
alternatives
Alignment   with patient  values       Measures  of social value (e.g., social desire for Patient group input
cures for cancer)
Cost-effectiveness                     Net efficacy compared   to other drugs —          Economic  Guidance   Report from  Economic
costs, cost per QALY  or event avoided,           Guidance  Panel, review of pharmacoeconomic
uncertainty about net health benefits             models
Feasibility of adoption                Overall assessment  of budget impact              Provincial advisory group input and economic
guidance reports
Put Strike                              Bid                                  Ask                               Include?
1345                                  0                                   0.15
Not considered following two zero
1350                                 0.05                                0.15                                 bids
1355                                 0.05                                0.35
1360                                  0                                   0.35                                 No
1365                                  0                                   0.35                                 No
1370                                 0.05                                 0.35                                 Yes
1375                                 0.1                                  0.15                                 Yes
1380                                 0.1                                  0.2                                  Yes
Call Strike                             Bid                                  Ask                               Include?
2095                                 0.05                                 0.35                                 Yes
2100                                 0.05                                 0.15                                 Yes
2120                                  0                                   0.15                                 No
2125                                 0.05                                 0.15                                 Yes
2150                                  0                                   0.1                                  No
2175                                  0                                   0.05                                 No
2200                                  0                                   0.05
Not considered following two zero
2225                                 0.05                                 0.1
bids
2250                                  0                                   0.05
Near  term  Strike          Option  Type            Midpoint   Price                 Next  term Strike           Option  Type            Midpoint   Price
1370                      Put                       0.2                             1275                       Put                     0.075
1375                      Put                     0.125                             1325                       Put                      0.15
1380                      Put                      0.15                             1350                       Put                      0.15
.                        .                         .                                 .                        .                         .
1950                      Put                     18.25                             1950                       Put                     21.60
1955                      Put                     19.75                             1955                       Put                     23.20
1960                Put/Call Average               22.775                            1960               Put/Call  Average               26.10
1965                      Call                    21.05                             1965                       Call                    24.15
1970                      Call                     18.1                             1970                       Call                    21.10
.                        .                         .                                 .                        .                         .
2095                      Call                      0.2                             2125                       Call                      0.1
2100                      Call                      0.1                             2150                       Call                      0.1
2125                      Call                      0.1                             2200                       Call                     0.08
Plasmodium    species
P. berghei             P. yoelii              P. chabaudi           P. vinckei
First isolated    1948  (Zaire)          1965  (CAR)            1965 (CAR)            1952  (Zaire)
Cycle             asynchronous           asynchronous           synchronous           synchronous
Periodicity       22-25  hours           22-25  hours           24 hours              24  hours
Host cells        reticulocytes          reticulocytes          Mature  RBC           Mature  RBC
Mz  per schizont  12  to 18              12 to 18               6 to 8                6 to 12
Primary  use      Drug  screening        Liver stage biology    Mechanisms   of drug
and vaccine  studies   resistance &
antigenic variation
Non-benzodiazepines
cyclopyrrolones
eszopiclone                1, 2, 3 mg tablets    2-3 mg  hs                                        Primarily  used for sleep-onset and main-
1 mg hs in elderly or debilitated; max 2 mg        tenance  insomnia;
1 mg hs in severe hepatic impairment;  max        Intermediate-acting;
2 mg                                              No  short-term usage  restriction
imidazopyridines
zolpidem                   5, 10 mg  tablets     10 mg  hs; max 10 mg                              Primarily  used for sleep-onset insomnia
5 mg hs in elderly, debilitated, or hepatic       Short-to intermediate-acting
impairment
zolpidem  (controlled      6.25, 12.5 mg         12.5 mg  hs                                       Primarily  used for sleep-onset and main-
release)                   tablets               6.25 mg  hs in elderly, debilitated, or hepatic    tenance  insomnia;
impairment                                        Controlled  release; swallow  whole,  not
divided, crushed  or chewed
pyrazolopyrimidines
zaleplon                   5, 10 mg  capsules    10 mg  hs; max 20 mg                              Primarily  used for sleep onset insomnia
5 mg hs in elderly, debilitated, mild to          Maintenance   insomnia  as long as 4 hours
moderate  hepatic impairment,  or concomitant      is available for further sleep
cimetidine                                        Short-acting
Benzodiazepines
estazolam                    1, 2 mg  tablets      1-2 mg  hs
0.5 mg hs in elderly or debilitated               Short- to intermediate-acting
temazepam                    7.5, 15, 30 mg        15-30 mg  hs
capsules              7.5 mg hs in elderly or debilitated               Short- to intermediate-acting
triazolam                    0.125, 0.25 mg        0.25 mg  hs; max 0.5 mg
tablets               0.125 mg  hs in elderly or debilitated; max       Short-acting
0.25 mg
flurazepam                   15, 30 mg  capsules   15-30 mg  hs                                      Long-acting
15 mg  hs in elderly or debilitated               Risk  of residual daytime drowsiness
Melatonin   Receptor  Agonists  (Non-Scheduled)
ramelteon                    8 mg  tablet          8 mg hs                                           Primarily  used for sleep-onset insomnia
  Short-acting
  No  short-term usage  restriction
Region                             Resistance  reported1         Comments
CQ        SP        MQ        Others
PLASMODIUM     FALCIPARUM    INFECTIONS
Central America (Mexico,           N         N         N                   North-west  of Panama  Canal  only
Belize, Guatemala, Honduras,
El Salvador, Nicaragua,
Costa Rica, NW Panama)
Caribbean  (Haiti and              N         N         N
Dominican  Republic  only)
South America  (SE Panama,         Y         Y         Y         QN        Resistance  to MQ and QN, although  reported, is considered to occur infrequently
Columbia, Venezuela,
Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, Bolivia, )
Western  Africa                    Y         Y         Y                   Incidence  of resistance to CQ variable, but very common in most areas
Eastern Africa                     Y         Y         N                   Incidence  o f resistance to SP highly variable, with some reports of focally high incidence,
but generally uncommon
Southern  Africa                   Y         Y         N                   Resistance  to SP, although reported, is considered to be generally uncommon
Indian Subcontinent                Y         N         N
South-East Asia and Oceania        Y         Y         Y         HAL,      Border  areas of Thailand, Cambodia, and Myanmar   highest risk for multiple-drug-resistant
QN        infections; in other areas, incidence of resistance to SP and MQ highly variable and absent
in many  areas
East Asia (China)                  Y         Y         ?                   Resistance  greatest problem in southern China
Exposure                Measured      Valid?     Reason  (Willett)                                Reason   (Margetts  / Nelson)
in
Vit D: D25  (OH)D         Plasma      Yes      Yes (P 198/199)  NB.  Seasonal variation exists,   Both  can be used to measure  vit D status, but
Serum                especially in elderly populations, decreasing in   the higher plasma  concentration and  lesser
winter and rising during summer  (p 198)           metabolic  control of d25 makes  this, by far, the
Sunshine  exposure is most important               better option (p 198).
determinant; level is better marker of dietary
intake in subjects with low sun exposure
Vit D: 1.25 (OH)2D                    No       No. Influenced  by calcium and  phosphate levels
and parathyroid hormone   (p 199).
Vit D: Alkaline           Serum       No       No. Is indirect measure of vit D status and is     No  info
phosphatase  activity                          susceptible to other disease processes (p 199)
Vit C                     Plasma      Yes      Yes (p 200). Leukocyte  may  be preferred for      Yes  (p 209), vit C exhibits the strongest and
Leukocyt             long-term intake and plasma  and serum  reflects   most   significant correlation between intake and
e                    more  recent intake (p 201)                        biochemical  indices. Known   confounders  are:
Serum                                                                   gender,  smoking
Vitamin  B6               Plasma      Yes      Yes response  to supplementation  shows            Recent  studies show  that there is unlikely to be
response in PLP. PLP  better measure  of short     a strong correlation between  dietary intake and
term rather than long term                         plasma  pyridoxal  phosphate levels (PPL)
PLP  and 4 Pyridoxic      Urinary     Yes      Urinary B6  may  be more  responsive to recent
acid                                           dietary intake than plasma PLP.  Random
samples  of urine 4 –pyridoxic acid correlate
well with 24 hour collections
Folacin (folate)          Serum       Yes      Yes good  correlation with dietary folate in both  Used  for assessing folate status Table 7.11p
Erythrocy            serum  and erythrocytes
te
Magnesium                 Serum       Yes      Yes stronger correlation with supplement  users
than with dietary Mg
Iron                      Serum       No       No, short-term variability is very high (p 208).
Hair/nails  No       No, remains  to be determined
Iron: Ferritin            Serum       Yes      Meat  intake predicts serum ferritin level (p 208) No  marker  of iron intake is satisfactory (p. 192)
Cancer      Stage I,  Stage II, Stage III, Stage  IV,  Stage I,  Stage II, Stage  III, Stage IV,
$         $         $          $           %         %         %           %
Breast      29,377    40,989    57,155     67,038      52        32        10          6
Prostate    ---       26,505    30,541     44,591      ---       84        8           8
Lung        60,038    73,509    84,726     93,166      22        4         26          48
Colorectal  49,189    66,613    83,980     108,599     25        29        26          20
Cancer      Stage I,  Stage II, Stage III, Stage  IV,  Stage I,  Stage II, Stage  III, Stage IV,
$         $         $          $           %         %         %           %
Breast      64,889    70,931    71,555     70,057      27        32        19          22
Prostate    ---       66,160    82,621     71,704      ---       66        5           29
Lung        82,621    78,091    74,186     65,907      13        3         27          57
Colorectal  83,135    84,098    86,789     79,552      14        21        26          39
Cancer     Average  Costs, $  Average  Cost-Savings, $    Average  Cost-Savings, %
Breast     38130              4330                        11.35
Prostate   28275              1770                        6.26
Lung       82897              20787                       25.08
Colorectal 75170              16623                       22.11
Stage           Average  Costs, $    Incidence  rate, %
0               984                  NA
I               4259                 52.1
II              12566                32.6
III             39761                9.7
IV              42303                5.6
IV (recurrent)  39281                NA
Jurisdiction     Structure           Level               Jurisdiction           Structure         Level
Russian
Australia        Credit              40%  to 45%         Federation             Deduction        4%  to 150%
Brazil           Deduction           160%  to 180%       Singapore              Deduction        50%  to 300%
Canada           Credit              15% to 35%          South  Africa          Deduction        150%
China            Deduction           150%                Republic  of Korea     Credit           7%  to 50%
India            Deduction           100%  to 200%       Turkey                 Deduction        50%  to 100%
Japan            Credit              5%  to 30%          United  Kingdom        Credit/          11% to 225%
deduction
Netherlands      Deduction           5%  to 160%         United  States         Credit           14%  to 20%
If you
are           Free     Reduced      Federal       Foster
receiving   Lunches    Lunches     Assistance     Care
→                                               payments
You  may
qualify
for           50%        50%          25%          50%
up to a     discount    discount    discount     discount
→  50
TABLE   1
Typical  Flue Liner Dimensions
Nominal         Inside        Equivalent       Minimum
Size      Perimeter,  P,   Diameter,  B       Area, Ap
in.           ft               in.             sq ft
8x12            27               E*              O42
12 "12          3.0               10             0.56
12%  16         3.6               12             O78
16%  16         42                i4             1.08
16% 20          48                16             1.38
20) « 20        3.3               18             1.78
20 « 24         59               20              246
24 424          BS               22              264
Steel
Finished  Fireplace  Opening                 Rough  Brick Work*
Angle*
8     LH     D      E      F               HERx    1      J      K        N
2a     24     16     an     14     18     B34             Ea      19     10     ADE
26     24     16     13     id     18     834             21     21      i      ACG
28     24     16     15     14     18     aa              21     21      12     Ade
16     7      14     23     8 al4    £88    21     24      13     Ade
32     BRS    16     19     14     23     834             21     od      id     And?
36            16     33     14     23     a3              21     27      16     Ad
SRE    16     2F     14     8      8 al4    BS&    21     29      ao     Ada
16     29     16     e4     834             21     32             B54
18     33     16            a3              2g     ar     8       B-60
a?     20     a      16     S888    13      EXRe@  25     45     Hasse   B66
22     42     16             13             27     45             B72
40     22     42     18             13             ar     45             B72
22     54     18             13             af     56             oa
Drug  Name  (Brand Name)                    Biomarker(s)                    Indication(s)
Adjuvant Therapy
1       Cevimeline (Evoxac®)                        CYP2D6                          Dry mouth
2       Rasburicase (Elitek®)                       G6PD;  CYB5R1-4                 Hyperuricemia, hemolysis, and
methemoglobinemia
3       Sodium  phenylacetate and sodium            NAGS;  CPS1; ASS1; OTC; ASL;    Urea cycle disorders
benzoate  (Ammonul®)                        ARG
4       Sodium  phenylbutyrate (Buphenyl®)          CPS1; OTC;  ASS1                Urea cycle disorders
Analgesia & Anesthesiology
5       Celecoxib (Celebrex®)                       CYP2C9                          Pain
6       Codeine                                     CYP2D6;  CYP3A4;   UGT2B7       Pain
7       Mivacurium  (Mivacron®)                     Cholinesterase gene             Anesthesia adjunct
8       Tramadol (Ultram®)                          CYP2D6                          Pain
Cardiovascular
9       Carvedilol (Coreg®)                         CYP2D6                          Cardiovascular disease
10      Clopidogrel (Plavix®)                       CYP2C19                         Antiplatelet response
11      Isosorbide and hydralazine (Bidil®)         NAT1; NAT2                      Heart failure
12      Lomitapide                                  LDLR                            Familial hypercholesterolemia
13      Metoprolol (Toprol-XL®)                     CYP2D6                          Cardiovascular disease
14      Mipomersen   sodium (Kynamro®)              LDLR                            Familial hypercholesterolemia
15      Pravastatin                                 LDR                             High cholesterol
16      Propafenone  (Rythmol  SR®)                 CYP2D6                          Cardiac arrhythmia
17      Quinidine                                   CYP2D6                          Cardiac arrhythmia, malaria
18      Simvastatin (Zocor®)                        SLCO1B1                         High cholesterol
19      Warfarin (Coumadin®)                        CYP2C9;  VKORC1;   protein C    Anti-blood clotting, stroke
or S deficiencies               prevention
Endocrinology
20      Glyburide                                   G6PD                            Diabetes
21      Chlorpropamide                              G6PD                            Diabetes
22      Glimepiride                                 G6PD;  CYP2C9                   Diabetes
23      Glipizide                                   G6PD                            Diabetes
Meal Type                        0-5 Months                                    6-11 Months
Breakfast             4-6 fl oz Breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant 6-8 fl oz Breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant
formula2                                       formula2 , and
0-4 tbsp infant cereal2,3, meat, fish,
poultry, whole eggs, cooked  dry beans or
peas; or
0-2 oz cheese; or
0-4 oz cottage cheese; or
0-4 oz yogurt4; or a combination5 , and
0-2 tbsp vegetable, fruit, or both5,6
Lunch  or Supper      4-6 fl oz Breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant 6-8 fl oz Breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant
formula2                                       formula2 , and
0-4 tbsp infant cereal2,3, meat, fish,
poultry, whole eggs, cooked  dry beans or
peas; or
0-2 oz cheese; or
0-4 oz cottage cheese; or
0-4 oz yogurt4; or a combination5 , and
0-2 tbsp vegetable, fruit, or both5,6
Snack                 4-6 fl oz Breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant 2-4 fl oz breastmilk1 or iron-fortified infant
formula2                                       formula2; and
0-1/2 slice bread3,7; or
0-2 crackers3,7; or
0-4 tbsp infant cereal2,3,7 or ready-to-eat
breakfast cereal3,5,7,8; and
0-2 tbsp vegetable, fruit, or a combination
of both5,6
Type  of data      Problem                         Assumptions
Dose-response      Serving size is not quantified  Use  serving size recommended    in SLR  1
data               or ranges are missing, but      for consistency  in the analyses (Appendix
group descriptions are given    4)
Standard error missing          The  p value (either exact or the upper
bound)  is used to estimate the standard
error
Quantile-based     Numbers   of controls (or the   Group  sizes are assumed  to be
data               denominator  in cohort          approximately   equal
studies) are missing
Odds  ratio is missing          Unadjusted   odds ratios are calculated by
using numbers   of cases and controls in
each  group
Confidence  interval is         Standard  error and hence  confidence
missing                         interval were calculated from  raw
numbers   (although doing  so may  result in
a somewhat   smaller standard  error than
would  be obtained  in an adjusted
analysis)
Group  mean  or median  are     The  mid-point  of closed-ended
missing                         categories will be assigned  as
exposure  to the group.  The median
exposure  for open ended-categories
will be estimated by  using the
method   of Chene  and Thompson11
assuming   a normal or lognormal
distribution. However,  if the
number   of groups is too small to
calculate a distribution, the
midpoint  will be assigned to the
lowest  category. The upper  bound
plus the mid-range  of the precedent
category  will be assigned to the
highest category.
Category  data     Numbers   of cases and          These  numbers   may  be inferred
controls (or the denominator    based  on numbers  of cases and  the
in cohort studies) is missing   reported odds  ratio (proportions will
be correct unless adjustment  for
confounding   factors considerably
alter the crude odds ratios)
QTc              Arsenic trioxide             ECG                 Replete     electrolytes
Prolongation                                                      (K/Mg)
Histone         deacetylase
inhibitors                                       Serial ECG  monitoring
Small molecule  TKIs                             Discontinue  other QTc
prolonging       drugs,
where possible
Discontinue
chemotherapy   agent, if
significant   risk   of
torsades
Pericardial      Busulfan                     Echocardiograph     Pericardiocentesis
Disease                                       y
Non-VSP     inhibitor small                      Pericardial window
molecule  TKIs               Cardiac  MRI
Pericardial   stripping
Cardiac  CT         (with constriction)
Colchicine     (if   no
interaction        with
chemotherapy)
NSAIDs     (if  normal
blood   pressure    and
LVEF)
NAME                               GOLDEN      RULE
TAKE    A READER'S     VIEW        Write  for your audience not for yourself.
TELL   A  STORY                    Direct your RA   but keep a clear focus in the paper and present only
results that relate to it.
BE  YOURSELF                       Write  like you speak and then revise and polish.
MAKE    IT  SIMPLE                 Use  simple(st) examples to explain complex  methodology.
Use  concrete words  and strong verbs, avoid noun clusters (more
MAKE    IT  CONCRETE
than three words), abstract and ambiguous  words.
Avoid  redundancy,  repetition and over-explanation of familiar
MAKE    IT  SHORT                  techniques  and terminology.
TAKE    RESPONSIBILITY             Make   a clear distinction between your work and that of others.
MAKE    STRONG
STATEMENTS                         "We  concluded    " instead of "It may be concluded   "
BE  SELF-CRITICAL                  Consider  uncertainty of conclusions and their implications and
acknowledge   the work  of others.
Chloroquine       Options†             Sites of action
resistance*
Yes               Atovaquone-          Blood stage (suppressive) and liver
proguanil or         stage (causal)‡
doxycycline or       Blood stage (suppressive)
mefloquine§  or      Blood stage (suppressive)
primaquine||         Liver stage (causal) and blood stage¶
No                Chloroquine or       Blood stage (suppressive)
atovaquone-          Blood stage (suppressive) and liver
proguanil or         stage (causal)
doxycycline or       Blood stage (suppressive)
mefloquine  or       Blood stage (suppressive)
primaquine¶          Liver stage (causal) and blood stage**
Publisher and journal                                                         Open  access (n)  Control articles (n) Open  access (%)
American   Physiological Society (Jan.–Apr.  2007),  delayed access: 12 mo
American  Journal of Physiology—Regulatory, Integrative and Comparative
Physiology                                                                       34                 161                17
American  Journal of Physiology—Endocrinology and  Metabolism                      21                 126                14
American  Journal of Physiology—Renal  Physiology                                  18                 122                13
American  Journal of Physiology-Heart and Circulatory Physiology                   32                 201                14
American  Journal of Physiology—Lung  Cellular and Molecular Physiology            14                  95                13
American  Journal of Physiology—Gastrointestinal and Liver Physiology              22                 112                16
American  Journal of Physiology—Cell Physiology                                    36                 119                23
Journal of Applied Physiology                                                      27                 174                13
Journal of Neurophysiology                                                         39                 239                14
Physiological Reviews                                                               2                  14                13
Physiology                                                                          2                   9                18
Total                                                                             247               1372                 15
American   Heart  Association (June–Sep.   2007), delayed  access: 12 mo
Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology                                 20                  85                19
Circulation                                                                        20                  76                21
Circulation Research                                                               19                  41                32
Hypertension                                                                       20                  75                21
Stroke                                                                             22                 110                17
Total                                                                             101                 387                21
Duke  University  Press (June–Dec.  2007),  delayed  access: never
Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law                                          7                  10                41
American  Speech                                                                    3                   5                38
Neuro-Oncology                                                                     12                  15                44
Public Culture                                                                      6                   5                55
Ethnohistory                                                                        5                   6                45
GLQ:   A Journal of Lesbian and Gay Studies                                         6                   7                46
Social Science History                                                              4                   6                40
Total                                                                              45                  54                45
SAGE   Publishers (June  2007–Feb.   2008), delayed  access: never
Comparative  Political Studies                                                     11                  17                39
Communication   Research                                                            8                  11                42
New  Media  &  Society                                                              8                  22                27
Social Studies of Science                                                           8                  17                32
American  Behavioral Scientist                                                     10                  31                24
Progress in Human   Geography                                                       8                  18                31
Administration  &  Society                                                          9                  15                38
Theory &   Psychology                                                              10                  23                30
Applied Psychological Measurement                                                   7                  13                35
Organization                                                                        8                  16                33
Total                                                                              87                 183                32
Federation  of American   Societies for Experimental   Biology (June–Oct.
2007),  delayed  access: 12 mo
FASEB   Journal                                                                    81                  84                49
Genetics  Society of America  (June–Sep.   2007), delayed  access: 6 mo
Genetics                                                                          103                 108                49
American   Association  for the Advancement    of Science (June–Nov.
2007),  delayed  access: 12 mo
Science                                                                            48                 345                12
Grand   total                                                                       712               2533                 22
Cancer      Total, # Stage   Stage    Stage    Stage   Stage   Stage    Stage  Stage   Stage   Stage   Stage  Stage   Stage   Stage   Stage   Stage
0, #    I, #     II, #    III, #  IV, #   ?, #     0, %   I, %    II, %   III, %  IV, %  ?, %    I, %    II, %   III, %  IV, %
Breast      260590   49540   96601    67953    24317   10382   11797    19.01  37.07   26.08   9.33    3.98   4.53    48.48   34.1    12.2    5.21
Colon       97947    8235    20085    23615    21597   17961   6454     8.41   20.51   24.11   22.05   18.34  6.59    24.12   28.36   25.94   21.57
Rectum      30334    2814    7536     4794     6081    4242    4867     9.28   24.84   15.8    20.05   13.98  16.04   33.27   21.16   26.84   18.73
Lung        155820   142     27008    7381     31097   69944   20248    0.09   17.33   4.74    19.96   44.89  12.99   19.94   5.45    22.96   51.65
Prostate    198043   NA      16113    135698   14194   13359   18679    NA     8.14    68.52   7.17    6.75   9.43    8.98    75.66   7.91    7.45
Exposure              Measured   in   Valid?    Reason   (Willett)                               Reason   (Margetts  / Nelson)
Retinol                  Plasma/se    Yes     Can  be measured  adequately, but limited          Main  biochemical  marker  of vit A intake is
rum                  interpretability in well-nourished population (p   serum  retinol (p 194) although in western
190).                                              countries dietary intake of this vitamin is only a
very minor  determinant of its plasma levels.
Retinol-Binding          Serum        Yes     Retinol levels are highly correlated to            May  be measure  of physiologically available
protein                                       RBP(p192).                                         form. Not  if certain disease processes exist (p
192).
Beta-carotene            Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 194) although blood levels much  more      Yes  (p 197)
responsive to supplemental  beta-carotene than
beta-carotene from  food sources (p 193)
Alpha-carotene           Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 194)                                       There  is some evidence for interaction between
Beta-cryptoxanthin                                                                               carotenoids during intestinal absorption, which
Lutein+zeaxanthin                                                                                may  complicate  relationship between intake and
Lycopene                                                                                         blood levels (p 198)
Vit E                    Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 196)                                       Plasma,  red and white blood cells. Yes, if used
NB.  Strong confounding  with serum  cholesterol   for vit E supplements. Yes, although if used for
and total lipid concentrations (p 196).            diet, associations are only moderate (p199)
C9296       Injection, ziv-aflibercept, 1 mg      J9096
C9297       Omacetaxine    mepesuccinate          J9097
C9442       Injection, belinostat, 10 mg          J9098
C9449       Injection, blinatumomab,   1 mcg      J9100
C9453       Injection, nivolumab,  1 mg           J9110
C9455       Injection, siltuximab, 10 mg          J9120
J0202       Injection, alemtuzumab                J9130
J0894       Decitabine  injection                 J9140
J9000       Doxorubicin   hcl injection           J9150
J9001       Doxorubicin   hcl liposome inj        J9151
J9002       Doxil injection                       J9155
J9010       Alemtuzumab    injection              J9160
J9015       Aldesleukin  injection                J9165
J9017       Arsenic  trioxide injection           J9170
J9019       Erwinaze  injection                   J9171
J9020       Asparaginase,   NOS                   J9178
J9025       Azacitidine injection                 J9179
J9027       Clofarabine  injection                J9181
J9031       Bcg  live intravesical vac            J9185
J9032       Injection, belinostat, 10 mg          J9190
J9033       Bendamustine    injection             J9200
J9035       Bevacizumab    injection              J9201
J9039       Injection, blinatumomab,   1          J9202
microgram
J9040       Bleomycin   sulfate injection         J9206
J9041       Bortezomib   injection                J9207
J9042       Brentuximab   vedotin  inj            J9208
J9043       Cabazitaxel  injection                J9211
J9045       Carboplatin  injection                J9212
J9047       Injection, carfilzomib, 1 mg          J9213
J9020       Asparaginase,   NOS                   J9214
J9025       Azacitidine injection                 J9215
J9027       Clofarabine  injection                J9216
J9031       Bcg  live intravesical vac            J9217
J9032       Injection, belinostat, 10 mg          J9218
J9033       Bendamustine    injection             J9219
J9035       Bevacizumab     injection             J9225
Injection, blinatumomab,   1
J9039       microgram                             J9226
J9040       Bleomycin   sulfate injection         J9228
Cyclophosphamide      lyophilized      J9299       Injection, nivolumab,  1 mg
Cyclophosphamide      lyophilized      J9300       Gemtuzumab     ozogamicin   inj
Cytarabine   liposome  inj             J9301       Injection, obinutuzumab,   10 mg
Cytarabine   hcl 100 MG   inj          J9302       Ofatumumab     injection
Cytarabine   hcl 500 MG   inj          J9303       Panitumumab     injection
Dactinomycin    injection              J9305       Pemetrexed    injection
Dacarbazine   100  mg  inj             J9306       Injection, pertuzumab,   1 mg
Dacarbazine   200  MG  inj             J9307       Pralatrexate  injection
Daunorubicin   injection               J9308       Injection, ramucirumab,   5 mg
Daunorubicin   citrate inj             J9310       Rituximab   injection
Degarelix  injection                   J9315       Romidepsin    injection
Denileukin  diftitox inj               J9320       Streptozocin  injection
Diethylstilbestrol injection           J9328       Temozolomide    injection
Docetaxel   injection                  J9330       Temsirolimus   injection
Docetaxel   injection                  J9340       Thiotepa  injection
Inj, epirubicin hcl, 2 mg              J9350       Topotecan   injection
Eribulin mesylate   injection          J9351       Topotecan   injection
Etoposide   injection                  J9354       Inj, ado-trastuzumab   emt  1mg
Fludarabine   phosphate   inj          J9355       Trastuzumab    injection
Fluorouracil  injection                J9357       Valrubicin injection
Floxuridine  injection                 J9360       Vinblastine  sulfate inj
Gemcitabine    hcl injection           J9370       Vincristine sulfate 1 MG  inj
Goserelin  acetate  implant            J9371       Inj, vincristine sul lip 1mg
Irinotecan  injection                  J9375       Vincristine sulfate 2 MG  inj
Ixabepilone  injection                 J9380       Vincristine sulfate 5 MG  inj
Ifosfamide  injection                  J9390       Vinorelbine  tartrate inj
Idarubicin hcl injection               J9395       Injection, Fulvestrant
Interferon alfacon-1  inj              J9400       Inj, ziv-aflibercept, 1mg
Interferon alfa-2a  inj                J9600       Porfimer  sodium   injection
Interferon alfa-2b  inj                J9999       Chemotherapy     drug
Interferon alfa-n3  inj                Q2017       Teniposide,  50 mg
Interferon gamma    1-b inj            Q2043       Provenge,   50 million autologous
CD54+   cells
Leuprolide  acetate  suspnsion         Q2048       Doxil injection
Leuprolide  acetate  injeciton         Q2049       Lipodox  10 mg
Leuprolide  acetate  implant           Q2050       Doxil 10mg
Vantas  implant                        Q9979       Injection, alemtuzumab
Supprelin  LA implant
Approach           Description                  Method   of price  determination
Setting  medicine   price
Cost-based         Setting price of a           Assessment  of costs through  data collection and financial accounting. This may
pricing            medicine  based  on  the     include the following elements:
costs of inputs and add      1.   Assessing relevant costs along  a predefined scope  along  the value chain to the
to it a mark-up                   point at which the price would  be set. The data may  include direct material costs,
percentage   or amount            direct labour costs, overhead costs associated  with R&D,  manufacturing,
regulatory processes  and compliance,  communication,    storage and  distribution,
dispensing  and administration
2.   Assessing and  negotiating an  acceptable level and structure of profit margin in
addition to the costs
Value-based        Setting price of a           Comparative   assessment  of value through  health technology  assessment  or
pricing            medicine  based  on  the     appraisals. These may  include all or some of the following elements:
differentiated               1.  Assessing  comparative  health gains
worth/value  of this
2.  Assessing  comparative  cost-effectiveness
medicine patients compared for a group to of 3. Assessing affordability/financial impacts to the patient and health system
the value  of comparable     4.  Assessing  other (less quantifiable) factors, such as: severity of the medical
medicines                        condition; public health importance;  confidence  in the clinical evidence and
assessment;  equity of access; quality use of medicines; and societal value
5.  Setting a price that is commensurate   with the determination  of “value”
External           Set price according  to      1.  Select a set of comparable  countries in which the medicine  has already  been
reference          the prices in other              launched
pricing            comparable   referenced      2.  Obtain  prices from these countries
countries/organizations
3.  Determine   the price based on  criteria such as average price, lowest price, and
additional criteria (e.g. average of the four lowest prices)
Internal           Set price according  to      1.  Determine   internal benchmarks:  for example, budget  constraint, prices of
reference          the prices of internal           comparable   medicines
pricing            benchmark    prices          2.  Set or negotiate  price
•   28–50%       10 drugs (32%
sample)
•   50–100%      16 drugs (52%)
•   100–200%     3 drugs (10%)
•   >200%        2 drugs (6%)
Journal                             Avg. Coverage
JAMA   Internal Medicine                      21.2
JAMA:   Journal of the American               16.9
Medical Association
Pediatrics                                    16.5
Current Biology                               16.1
JAMA   Pediatrics                             15.0
MMWR:    Morbidity  & Mortality               14.9
Weekly  Report
Circulation                                   14.7
New  England  Journal of Medicine             14.4
Nature Geoscience                             13.0
Nature Climate Change                         13.0
Subject                                  Avg. Coverage
health information management                       15.4
health, toxicology and mutagenesis                  10.7
pediatrics, perinatology, and child                 10.5
health
environmental  science, miscellaneous               10.1
agricultural and biological sciences,                9.7
miscellaneous
internal medicine                                    9.5
general earth planetary sciences                     8.9
epidemiology                                         8.8
archaeology                                          8.7
social sciences, miscellaneous                       8.4
Individual  Contributions    (Cont.)                                                       Individual  Contributions   (Cont.)
Near  term                        Midpoint                      Contribution               Near term                        Midpoint                       Contribution
Strike       Option  Type         Price          Delta-K         by Strike                 Strike       Option  Type         Price         Delta-K         by Strike
1865             Put              5.250            5          0.0000075471                 1965             Call           24.150             5          0.0000312732
1870             Put              5.600            5          0.0000080073                 1970             Call           21.100             5          0.0000271851
1875             Put              6.000            5          0.0000085335                 1975             Call           18.300             5          0.0000234584
1880             Put              6.400            5          0.0000090541                 1980             Call           15.700             5          0.0000200240
1885             Put              6.850            5          0.0000096393                 1985             Call           13.300             5          0.0000168776
1890             Put              7.350            5          0.0000102883                 1990             Call           11.100             5          0.0000140152
1895             Put              7.900            5          0.0000109999                 1995             Call            9.150             5          0.0000114952
1900             Put              8.300            5          0.0000114961                 2000             Call            7.400             5          0.0000092502
1905             Put              9.000            5          0.0000124003                 2005             Call            5.850             5          0.0000072763
1910             Put              9.650            5          0.0000132263                 2010             Call            4.650             5          0.0000057550
1915             Put             10.600            5          0.0000144526                 2015             Call            3.550             5          0.0000043718
1920             Put             11.400            5          0.0000154626                 2020             Call            2.700             5          0.0000033086
1925             Put             12.100            5          0.0000163269                 2025             Call            2.050             5          0.0000024997
1930             Put             13.250            5          0.0000177861                 2030             Call            1.550             5          0.0000018807
1935             Put             14.150            5          0.0000188962                 2035             Call            1.150             5          0.0000013885
1940             Put             15.250            5          0.0000202603                 2040             Call            0.875             5          0.0000010513
1945             Put             16.550            5          0.0000218745                 2045             Call            0.675             5          0.0000008070
1950             Put             18.250            5          0.0000239979                 2050             Call            0.575            7.5         0.0000010262
1955             Put             19.750            5          0.0000258376                 2060             Call            0.350            10          0.0000008248
1960       Put/Call Average      24.250            5          0.0000296432                 2070             Call            0.250            7.5         0.0000004376
1965             Call            21.050            5          0.0000272588                 2075             Call            0.200            15          0.0000006968
1970             Call            18.100            5          0.0000233198                 2100             Call            0.150            25          0.0000008504
1975             Call            15.250            5          0.0000195486                 2125             Call            0.100            25          0.0000005536
1980             Call            12.750            5          0.0000162614                 2150             Call            0.100            37.5        0.0000008113
1985             Call            10.450            5          0.0000132609                 2200             Call            0.075            50          0.0000007748
1990             Call             8.450            5          0.0000106691
1995             Call             6.650            5          0.0000083544
2000             Call             4.950            5          0.0000061876               Sum     of Individual     Contributions                   0.000831402
2005             Call             3.800            5          0.0000047264
2010             Call             2.875            5          0.0000035582                2         KK  i e R T Q ( K i )                               0.018838
2015             Call             2.025            5          0.0000024938                T            2
i      i
2020             Call             1.450            5          0.0000017768
2025             Call             1.125            5          0.0000013718
2030             Call             0.725            5          0.0000008797
2035             Call             0.525            5          0.0000006339
2040             Call             0.500            5          0.0000006007                                        2
R T
2045             Call             0.400            5          0.0000004782                                                          2 i  e       Q   ( K   i )
2050             Call             0.250            5          0.0000002974                                       T              KK
i          i
2055             Call             0.325            5          0.0000003848
2060             Call             0.225            5          0.0000002651
2065             Call             0.175            5          0.0000002052
2070             Call             0.150            5          0.0000001750
2075             Call             0.150            5          0.0000001742
2080             Call             0.250            5          0.0000002889
2085             Call             0.225            5          0.0000002588
2090             Call             0.100            5          0.0000001145               Sum     of Individual     Contributions                 0.0006320516
2095             Call             0.200            5          0.0000002278                2         KK
2100             Call             0.100            15         0.0000003401                             2 i e R T Q ( K i )                         0.018494953
T           i
2125             Call             0.100            25         0.0000005536                     i
Table 1. Leading   causes  of deaths  and  disability-adjusted   life-years  (DALYs)  in middle-income     and  low-income    countries
Causes   of deathsa                                     %  of total        Causes   of DALYs                                         %  of total
deaths                                                                       DALYs
1. Ischaemic  heart disease                                 11.5            1. Lower respiratory infections                              6.8
2. Cerebrovascular  disease                                  8.9            2. Perinatal conditions                                      6.7
3. Lower  respiratory infections                             7.3            3. HIV/AIDS                                                  6.6
4. HIV/AIDS                                                  6.1            4. Meningitis                                                4.6
5. Perinatal conditions                                      5.1            5. Diarrhoeal diseases                                       4.6
6. Chronic  obstructive pulmonary disease                    4.7            6. Unipolar depressive disorders                             4.0
7. Diarrhoeal diseases                                       4.4            7. Ischaemic heart disease                                   3.5
8. Tuberculosis                                              3.4            8. Malaria                                                   3.0
9. Road  traffic accidents                                   2.4            9. Cerebrovascular disease                                   2.9
10. Malaria                                                   2.3          10.  Road traffic accidents                                    2.8
11. Hypertensive  heart disease                               1.7          11.  Tuberculosis                                              2.6
12. Measles                                                   1.6          12.  Congenital anomalies                                      2.3
13. Trachea, bronchus,  lung cancers                          1.6          13.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary  disease                    2.3
14. Self-inflicted injuries                                   1.5          14.  Measles                                                   2.0
15. Cirrhosis of the liver                                    1.4          15.  Cirrhosis of the liver                                    2.0
Vaccine: DTaP           Vaccine:               Vaccine:                Vaccine:
Lot #:                  Lot #:                 Lot #:                 Lot #:
Exp Date:              Exp  Date:              Exp Date:              Exp  Date:
Site Given:            Site Given:             Site Given:            Site Given:
African horse  sickness virus                                       Virus
African swine  fever virus                                          Virus
Akabane   virus                                                     Virus
Avian  influenza virus (highly pathogenic)                          Virus
Bluetongue   virus (exotic)                                         Virus
Bovine  spongiform  encephalopathy    agent                         Prion
Camel  pox  virus                                                   Virus
Classical swine  fever virus                                        Virus
Cowdria  ruminantium   (Heartwater)                                 Bacteria
Foot-and-mouth   disease  virus                                     Virus
Goat  pox virus                                                     Virus
Japanese   encephalitis virus                                       Virus
Lumpy   skin disease virus                                          Virus
Malignant  catarrhal fever virus (exotic)                           Virus
Menangle   virus                                                    Virus
Mycoplasma    capricolum/M.  F38/M.  mycoides   capri (contagious
caprine pleuropneumonia)                                            Bacteria
Mycoplasma    mycoides   mycoides  (contagious  bovine
pleuropneumonia)                                                    Bacteria
Newcastle   disease virus (VVND)                                    Virus
Peste  des petits ruminants  virus                                  Virus
Rinderpest  virus                                                   Virus
Sheep  pox  virus                                                   Virus
Swine  vesicular disease  virus                                     Virus
Vesicular stomatitis virus (exotic)                                 Virus
Office Use  Only
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Make:                     Model:                    Color:                 Permit #:
Exposure                Measured      Valid?    Reason  (Willett)                                Reason  (Margetts  / Nelson)
in
Copper  : Superoxide     Erythrocy    Yes     Among   four men  fed a copper deficient diet for
dismutase                te                   4 months, erythrocyte S.O.D  declined for all 4.
Copper  repletion restored S.O.D levels
Copper                   Plasma/se    No      No  (p 211): large number of lifestyle
rum                  factors/pathologic conditions probably alter
blood copper  concentrations (smoking,
infections)
Copper                   Hair         No      No  evidence (212) and data suggests influenced    No. Copper-dependent   enzyme  superoxide
by external contamination                          dismutase in erythrocytes and copper-protein
complex  caeroplasmin  in serum have been
shown  to be associated with copper intake, but
these markers may  be influenced by nondietary
factors (p 193)
Selenium                 Blood        Yes     Yes. Erythrocyte is probably superior to serum     Yes (p 193). Relationship between  selenium
compone              as                                                 intake and biomarkers is reasonably good.
nts                  measure  of long-term intake (p 206). Lower        Urine: reasonable marker, plasma  reflects intake
Toenails             influence of environment  in countries where       provided that the range of variation is large. Red
wearing  shoes is norm (toenails). Selenium        cell and glutathione perioxidase are
status is reduced by smoking, also in older        markers of longer-term intakes. Hair and
persons (p 207); Relationship of selenium with     toenails are alternative possibilities, although
disease may  be modified by other antioxidants     contamination  of hair samples with shampoo
(vit E and C)                                      must be controlled for
Glutathione              Plasma       No      Is poor measure of selenium  intake among
perioxidase              Serum                persons with moderate  and high exposure  (p
Erythrocy            206)
tes
Blood
Brick Category           Cleaning  Method                                             Remarks
Bucket  and Brush
Red and  Red  Flashed        Hand  Cleaning         Water,  detergents, emulsifying agents, or suitable proprietary compounds   may  be
Pressurized  Water       used.
Abrasive Blasting
Bucket  and Brush       Clean  with water, detergents, emulsifying agents, or suitable proprietary
White, Tan, Buff, Gray,       Hand  Cleaning         compounds.    Unbuffered muriatic acid solutions tend to cause stains in brick
Pink, Brown, Black,       Pressurized  Water       containing manganese    and  vanadium.  Light colored brick are more susceptible  to
Specks   and Spots
Abrasive Blasting        "acid burn" and  stains, compared  to darker units.
Clean  with water and scrub  brush using light pressure. Stubborn mortar stains may
Sand  Finish or          Bucket  and Brush       require use of cleaning solutions. Abrasive blasting is not recommended.   Cleaning
Surface Coating           Hand  Cleaning         may  affect appearance.
See  Brick Category   for additional remarks based on  brick color.
Wipe  glazed  surface with soft cloth within a few minutes of laying units. Use a soft
Bucket  and Brush       sponge   or brush plus ample water supply  for final washing. Use detergents where
Hand  Cleaning
Glazed  Brick                                   necessary  and  proprietary cleaners only for very difficult mortar stain. Consult brick
and  cleaner manufacturer  before use  of proprietary cleaners on salt glazed or
Pressurized  Water       metallic glazed brick. Do not use abrasive powders.  Do  not use metal cleaning
tools or brushes.
Method  is generally     Many   manufacturers  of colored mortars do not recommend    chemical  cleaning
Colored Mortars            controlled by         solutions. Unbuffered  acids and some  proprietary cleaners tend to bleach colored
Brick Category         mortars. Mild detergent  solutions are generally recommended.
Documentos    Necessários
Procedimento                                                                                                   Pedido/Relatório  Médico  (CRM)
Recibo  (Original)                         Nota Fiscal (Original)
Original
Deve   constar:   Nome    e  CNPJ    da
Deve  constar: Nome   completo  do paciente,   entidade prestadora, nome  completo  do
especialidade, descrição  do  procedimento,    paciente, especialidade,  descrição  do
data de  atendimento,  valor numérico e  por   procedimento, data de atendimento, valor
Consulta  Médica         extenso,  nome    do  médico,  CRM,    CPF,    numérico   e  por  extenso,  nome    do                    -
assinatura, carimbo do médico  e telefone do   médico, CRM,  CPF, assinatura e carimbo
local de atendimento.                          do  médico.  Nota  fiscal deve   conter
quitação.
Deve   constar:   Nome    e  CNPJ    da   Deve  constar : Nome  completo do
Deve   constar:  Datas   de  realização das    entidade prestadora, datas de realização  paciente,   data    de   emissão,
Sessão  de                                                              das   sessões,   nome    completo    do
psicoterapia, Terapia    sessões,   nome    completo   do   paciente,   paciente, especialidade,  descrição  do   indicação clínica e ou diagnóstico
Ocupacional,             descrição do procedimento,  valor numérico e   procedimento, data de atendimento, valor  (CID). O mesmo   é válido por  um
Fonoaudiologia   e       por extenso, nome  e carimbo  do profissional  numérico  e  por  extenso,  número   do   ano  a contar da data  da vigência
executante,  CPF  e  número  do  registro no                                             do plano (aniversário contrato).
Escleroterapia           conselho.                                      registro no conselho, assinatura, nome e  Obs.:  Relatório  médico   deverá
carimbo do profissional executante. Nota  ser atualizado a cada  ano.
fiscal deve conter quitação.
Deve  constar  : nome completo do
Deve   constar:   Nome    e  CNPJ    da   paciente,   data    de   emissão,
entidade prestadora, datas de realização  indicação clínica e ou diagnóstico
Deve   constar:  Datas   de  realização das    das   sessões,   nome    completo    do   (CID), assinatura  e carimbo   do
sessões,   nome    completo   do   paciente,   paciente, especialidade,  descrição  do   médico   solicitante. O mesmo    é
FISIOTERAPIAS    EM      descrição do procedimento,  valor numérico e   procedimento, data de atendimento, valor  válido por três meses.
GERAL   - RPG  –
HIDROTERAPIA             por extenso, CPF,  nome, número  do registro   numérico   e  por  extenso,  nome    do   Obs.:      Relatório      médico
no   conselho,  carimbo   e  assinatura  do    fisioterapeuta, número  do  registro no   contendo      a   evolução     da
profissional executante.                       conselho, CPF,  assinatura e carimbo do   patologia, deverá  ser atualizado
profissional executante. Nota fiscal deve a  cada  3 meses.   Não  é  válido
conter quitação.                          pedido         emitido        por
fisioterapeuta.
Deve  constar: Nome   completo  do paciente,   Deve   constar:   Nome    completo   do
especialidade,   descrição    dos   exames     paciente, discriminação  individualizada  Deve  constar  : nome completo do
Exames                   realizados  e valores  individuais, data de    dos exames  realizados (nome  do exame    paciente,   data    de   emissão,
e valor cobrado), valor numérico  e por   indicação clínica e ou diagnóstico
(Laboratoriais,          atendimento,  valor numérico e por  extenso,   extenso. Nome   do médico,  CRM,  CPF,    (CID),   descrição  dos   exames
Radiológicos)            nome   do  médico,  CRM,   CPF,  assinatura,   assinatura, carimbo   do  médico  Nota    solicitados, carimbo e  assinatura
carimbo  do  médico  e telefone do  local de   fiscal deve conter quitação.              do médico  solicitante.
atendimento.
Deve    constar:  Nome    e  CNPJ    da
Deve  constar: Nome   completo  do paciente,   entidade prestadora, nome  completo  do   Deve  constar : Informar no pedido
PROCEDIMENTOS            especialidade,  descrição  do  procedimento    paciente, especialidade,  descrição  do   médico   descrição detalhada  das
AMBULATORIAIS            realizado,  data   de   atendimento,   valor   procedimento, data de atendimento, valor  lesões e procedimentos  realizados
(CIRUGIAS   DE                                                                                                    para cada uma.
PEQUENO    PORTE)        numérico  e  por extenso, nome   do médico,    numérico  e por  extenso,   CRM,  CPF,    Enviar    laudo    de    anátomo
CRM,  CPF,  assinatura e carimbo do médico.    assinatura, nome  e carimbo do  médico.   patológico (se houver).
Nota fiscal deve conter quitação.
Honorários  Médicos:
Deve   constar:   Nome    e  CNPJ    da   Relatório Médico:
entidade prestadora, nome  completo  do   Deve  constar : Nome  completo do
Honorários  Médicos   :                        paciente, descrição  do   procedimento,   paciente,   data    de   emissão,
valor numérico  e por extenso, data  da
Recibo   deve  constar: Nome   completo  do    realização da cirurgia. Discriminação dos diagnóstico,  quadro    clínico  e
INTERNAÇÃO     -         paciente,   especialidade,   descrição   do    profissionais participantes na  cirurgia  cirurgia  realizada,   tempo   de
HONORÁRIOS               procedimento,   data  de atendimento,  valor   (nome, CPF,  CRM   e atuação  (cirurgião, evolução   da  doença,   data  de
MÉDICOS    E             numérico  e por  extenso, CPF,  CRM,  nome                                               internação   e  alta,  carimbo   e
DESPESAS                 completo, carimbo, assinatura do profissional  1º, 2º, 3º, 4º auxiliar, instrumentador,  assinatura do médico (CRM).
HOSPITALARES             executante  e atuação  na cirurgia (cirurgião, anestesista).                             Obs.:   Se   o  atendimento    for
1º,  2º,  3º,  4º  auxiliar, instrumentador,   Despesas     hospitalares:   Data    de   clínico,   necessário    relatório
internação e data da alta, discriminação
anestesista).                                  das   despesas   hospitalares   (diárias, médico    com    o   diagnóstico,
materiais,  medicamentos     e   taxas,   quadro   clínico, especialidade  e
discriminar itens e valores unitários).   quantidade  de  visitas cobradas.
Nota fiscal deve conter quitação.
Honorários  Médicos:                           Nome   completo  do paciente, descrição
Recibo   deve  constar: Nome   completo  do    do procedimento,  valor numérico  e por   Em    cumprimento   à   Resolução
extenso, data da realização da  cirurgia.
paciente,   especialidade,   descrição   do    Discriminação     dos      profissionais  Normativa    (RN    368),  há    a
PARTO                    procedimento,   data  de atendimento,  valor   participantes (nome,   CPF,    CRM    e   obrigatoriedade   do   envio   do
CESÁREA/NORMAL           numérico  e  por extenso, nome   do médico,    atuação na cirurgia (cirurgião, 1º auxiliar, partograma, relatório   médico
CRM,  CPF,  assinatura, carimbo do médico  e                                             detalhado     e/ou    termo    de
atuação  na  cirurgia (cirurgião, 1º auxiliar, instrumentador, anestesista). Nota fiscal consentimento.
instrumentador, anestesista).                  deve conter quitação.
Table2.KeyTerminologyandExamplesofTherapeuticProducts
Term           Definition                                      Examples
Brand-name     Amedicationusuallysoldbytheoriginal             Nexium,
drug           sponsoroftheapplicationforregulatory            Crestor,
approval                                        Prilosec
Generic        Aversionofabrand-namesmall-molecule             Omeprazole,
drug           drugmanufacturedbyadifferentsupplier.           simvastatin
Genericdrugscanbecertifiedasbioequivalent
bytheFDAandsubstitutedforbrand-name
drugsbyapharmacist.
Biologic       Anoftenprotein-basedtherapeuticproduct          Filgrastim,
drug           thatisdistinguishedbyitsmolecular               epoetinalfa
complexity
Specialty      Adrugdesignatedbyapayerforspecial               Sovaldi,
drug           attention,oftenbecauseofitshighprice,but        Praluent,
alsopotentiallybecauseoftheneedfor              Soliris
distinctivehandlingorparticularpatient
monitoring
Abbreviation:FDA,FoodandDrugAdministration.
Australia                                         Canada                          Germany                       UnitedKingdom
National        PharmaceuticalBenefits     PatentedMedicinesPrices       CanadianAgencyfor        FederalJointCommitteeor       NationalInstitutefor
organization    AdvisoryCommittee          ReviewBoard                   DrugsandTechnology       InstituteforQualityand        HealthandClinical
inHealthcare             EfficiencyinHealthcare        Excellence
Remit           Publicpayers               Allpayers                     Publicpayersexcept       Allinsurers                   NationalHealthService
inQuebec(noncancer
drugs)
Review          Comparativeeffectiveness,  Therapeuticinnovation;        Comparative              Comparativebenefit            Clinicaleffectiveness
criteria        safety,and                 comparativepricingwith        effectiveness,safety,                                  andcost-effectiveness
cost-effectiveness;        respecttoFrance,Germany,      andcost-effectiveness;
projectedusageand          Italy,Sweden,United           patientexperiences
overallcoststothehealth    Kingdom,andUnitedStates
caresystem
Decision        Coverage(yes,no,limited)   Pricereductionsorrebates      Coverage                 Pricesettingafterfirstyear    Coverage
onthemarket
Binding         Yes                        Yes                           No                       Yes                           Yes
Authors
Criteria                   Editors                      Scientific  Contributions                       Career   Advancement
Objectivity       Blind reviewing                      Submit  to journal with blind           ↔     Submit  to journal with blind
Favor multiple hypotheses            reviews                                       reviews  if author known  or from
Authors to nominate  referees                                                      high  status institution
“Note to Referees”
Two-sided  recommendations    by     Use  multiple hypotheses                ↔     Advocate   a dominant  hypothesis
referees
Unrefereed  contributions            Challenge  current beliefs              ↔     Do  not challenge  current beliefs
Open  peer review
Replicability     Full disclosure of method/data                                               ↔
Provide  full disclosure                      Avoid  full disclosure
(use supporting  documents)
Public access  to method/data
Encourage   replications                                                           Reuse   previous design
Importance        Use “Note  to Referees”  to:
Rate importance                    Select important  problems              ↔     Avoid  important problems
Predict results
Obtain evidence  on  applications    Describe  why  paper is important             Avoid  surprising results
Examine  citation rate               Describe  use of recommendations
Referees  from other disciplines
Competence        Evidence  of prior peer review       Use  most appropriate  method           ↔     Use  complex   methods
Structured guide  for referees
Adequate  competency?                Include all literature relevant         ↔     Cite approved   works  only
Blind reviews
“Note to Referees”  used  to rate    Obtain  prior peer review                     Use  self-citations
competence
Technical review                     Check  references  against original
source
Complete/accurate   literature       Report  errors after publication
review
Open  peer review
Intelligibility   Ask referees  to:                    Write clearly                           ↔     Write  obtusely for unimportant
papers
Rate readability                                                                 Write  clearly for important papers
Suggest  improvements
Publish readability index
Referees  with varied
backgrounds
Copy  editing by the publisher
Efficiency        No page  limit                       Make  paper  as short as possible             Make   paper as  short as possible
Rate length vs. contribution         Provide  supporting documents
Publish “Papers  Accepted”  list
Referees  to receive:
Time  deadlines
Specialty            DO Graduates        U.S. MD
Graduates
Family Medicine      19.51%              7.39%
Pediatrics           8.14%               10.04%
General Internal     18.66%              16.7%
Medicine
Emergency            11.61%              7.25%
Medicine
Obstetrics and       5.52%               5.07%
Gynecology
Psychiatry           4.03%               3.65%
Diagnostic           2.53%               5.04%
Radiology
Anesthesiology       4.26%               6.26%
Orthopedic Surgery   2.53%               3.53%
Dermatology          0.71%               1.76%
Neurological         0.32%               0.99%
Surgery
Telephone
Mid-Year                  Variance       Reason  for variance
Update                    as % of          where  material
Strategic Plan    Revised                   Original         (Normally > £50k
Forecast       Outturn       Variance    Forecast            and > 10%)
2002-03         2002-03
£'000         £'000        £'000         %
Income
Funding Council Grants                                           0             0            0       N/A
Tuition Fees and Education Contracts                             0             0            0       N/A
Research  Grants and Contracts                                   0             0            0       N/A
Other Income                                                     0             0            0       N/A
Endowment   and Investment Income                                0             0            0       N/A
Total Income                                                     0             0            0       N/A
Expenditure
Staff Costs                                                      0             0            0       N/A
Exceptional restructuring costs                                  0             0            0       N/A
Other Operating Expenses                                         0             0            0       N/A
Depreciation                                                     0             0            0       N/A
Interest Payable                                                 0             0            0       N/A
Total Expenditure                                                0             0            0       N/A
Surplus/(Deficit) after Depreciation of Assets
at Valuation and before Tax                                      0             0            0       N/A
Gain/(Loss) on Disposal  of Assets                               0             0            0       N/A
Surplus/(Deficit) after Depreciation of
Assets at Valuation and Disposal  of Assets
but before tax                                                   0             0            0       N/A
Taxation (input as negative)                                     0             0            0       N/A
Minority Interest (input as negative)                            0             0            0       N/A
Surplus/(Deficit) after Depreciation of
Assets at Valuation, Disposal of Assets and Tax                  0             0            0       N/A
Note of Historical Costs Surpluses and  Deficits
Surplus/(Deficit) after Depreciation of Assets                   0             0            0       N/A
at Valuation and Tax
Difference between an Historical Cost
Depreciation Charge and the Actual
Depreciation Charge for the Year
Calculated on the Revalued Amount                                0             0            0       N/A
Realisation of Property Revaluation Gain
of Previous Years                                                0             0            0       N/A
Historical Cost Surplus/(Deficit)
after Tax                                                        0             0            0       N/A
Nutrient                Biologic       Val./reproduc      Coef      Details
tissue
Iron (ferritin)         Serum          Validity           0.16      Borderline 0.16 correlation with heme  intake but only r-0.15 with total iron
intake (Willett p 208). Included as marker of iron storage
Copper  (Superoxide     Erythrocyte    -                  -         S.O.D  levels reflect both depletion and repletion of Cu (Willett p 212)
dismutase)
Selenium                Serum          Validity           0.63      Correlation between  selenium  intake and serum selenium  in South Dakotans
(n=44)(Willett, p 186)
Reproducibility    0.76      Average  correlation between repeated  measurements   at four 3-month intervals
in 78 adults (Willett, p 188)
Toenails       Validity           0.59      Correlation between  selenium  intake and toenail selenium level in South
Dakotans  (n=44) (Willett, p 186)`
Reproducibility    0.48      Correlation for selenium levels in toenails collected 6 years apart from 127 US
women   (Willett, p 206)
Whole          Validity           0.62      Correlation between  selenium  intake and whole blood  selenium  in South
blood                                       Dakotans  (n=44) (Willett, p 186)
Reproducibility    0.95      Average  correlation between repeated  measurements   at four 3-month intervals
in 78 adults (Willett, p 188)
Linoleic acid           Adipose        Validity           0.57      Correlation between  dietary linoleic acid intakes determined from 7-day
tissue                                      weighted  diet records and the relative proportion of linoleic acid in adipose
tissue in Scottish men (n=164). Also correlation between  linoleic acid measured
in adipose tissue and calculated from FFQ  in 118 Boston-area  men  (Willett, p
220)
Eicosapentaenoic        Adipose        Validity           0.40      Correlation with intake estimated from  three 7-day weighted food  records
(n-3)                   tissue                                      (Willett, p 223).
Reproducibility    0.68      Correlation over 8 months  in 27 men  and women   aged 20-29  (Willett, p 223).
Plasma         Validity           0.23      Correlation of cholesterol ester fraction and intake in 3,570 adults (Willett, p
223)
Reproducibility    0.38      Correlation of two measurements   taken 6 years apart in study of 759 Finnish
youths (Willett, p 219)
Exposure              Measured   in   Valid?    Reason   (Willett)                               Reason   (Margetts  / Nelson)
Retinol                  Plasma/se    Yes     Can  be measured  adequately, but limited          Main  biochemical  marker  of vit A intake is
rum                  interpretability in well-nourished population (p   serum  retinol (p 194) although in western
190).                                              countries dietary intake of this vitamin is only a
very minor  determinant of its plasma levels.
Retinol-Binding          Serum        Yes     Retinol levels are highly correlated to            May  be measure  of physiologically available
protein                                       RBP(p192).                                         form. Not  if certain disease processes exist (p
192).
Beta-carotene            Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 194) although blood levels much  more      Yes  (p 197)
responsive to supplemental  beta-carotene than
beta-carotene from  food sources (p 193)
Alpha-carotene           Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 194)                                       There  is some evidence for interaction between
Beta-cryptoxanthin                                                                               carotenoids during intestinal absorption, which
Lutein+zeaxanthin                                                                                may  complicate  relationship between intake and
Lycopene                                                                                         blood levels (p 198)
Vit E                    Plasma       Yes     Yes  (p 196)                                       Plasma,  red and white blood cells. Yes, if used
NB.  Strong confounding  with serum  cholesterol   for vit E supplements. Yes, although if used for
and total lipid concentrations (p 196).            diet, associations are only moderate (p199)
RAI            No.  of words        No. of sentences       No. of paragraphs        Sentences/paragraph         Institutional location
ESPj1          140                  3                      1                        3.0                         France
ESPj2          163                  5                      1                        5.0                         Hong  Kong
ESPj3          588                  15                     4                        3.8                         Slovenia
ESPj4          397                  10                     3                        3.3                         Hong  Kong
ESPj5          517                  20                     3                        6.7                         Thailand
ESPj6          313                  12                     1                        12.0                        UK
ESPj7          311                  10                     2                        5.0                         Hungary
ESPj8          1142                 44                     7                        6.3                         Italy
ESPj9          1277                 47                     9                        5.2                         USA
ESPj10         495                  15                     4                        3.8                         UK,  Hong  Kong
Average        534.3                18.1                   3.5                      5.2
Citation                             Country                Cost at 2010 level         US$                    €                     £
Annual  costs
Chamberlain et al . [ 9 ]            England/Wales          £ 94 240 004                 136 044 870           109 949 813             94 240 004
Marks et al . [ 10 ]                 Australia              AU$204  136 795              178 514 585           144 273 321           123 659 314
Koopmanschap   et al . [ 11 ]        Netherlands            € 147 865 973 *              182 959 903           147 865 973           126 738 642
National Cancer Institute [ 12 ]     USA                    $11 524 053 605            11 524 053 605         9 313 600 264         7 982 857 859
First-year costs after diagnosis
Per Patient
Lazzaro et al . [ 13 ]               Italy                  € 10 165                          12 578                10 165                  8 713
Fourcade et al . [ 14 ]              UK                     € 3705                             4 585                 3 705                 3 176
Germany                € 4741                             5 866                 4 741                 4 063
France                 € 6837                             8 460                 6 837                 5 860
Italy                  € 6107                             7 556                 6 107                 5 234
Spain                  € 3805                             4 708                 3 805                  3 261
Roehrborn et al . [ 15 ]             USA                    $17 725                           17 725                14 325                12 278
Total prostate cancer
Fourcade et al . [ 14 ]              UK                     € 136 367 578                168 732 524           136 367 578            116 883 156
Germany                € 209 167 065                258 809 956           209 167 065           179 280 933
France                 € 195 728 958                242 182 500           195 728 958           167 762 885
Italy                  € 124 682 267                154 273 867           124 682 267            106 867 461
Spain                  € 133 913 663                165 696 206           133 913 663            114 779 860
Diagnosis, treatment and  5 years plus follow-up costs
Per patient
Benedict et al . †                   UK                     £ 6992                            10 094                 8 158                 6 992
Germany                € 12 794                          15 831                12 794                10 996
France                 € 11 364                          14 061                11 364                 9 740
Italy                  € 9951                            12 313                 9 951                 8 529
Spain                  € 9060                            11 210                 9 060                 7 765
Stokes et al . [ 17 ]                USA                    $23 116                           23 116                18 722                16 047
Total prostate cancer
Sangar et al . [ 16 ]                UK                     £ 136 278 237                196 731 262           158 995 819           136 278 237
Benedict et al . †                   UK                     € 314 334 863                388 937 866           314 334 863           269 422 185
Germany                €  567 906 110               702 690 717           567 906 109           486 762 758
France                 €  722 152 213               893 544 986           722 152 213           618 969 927
Italy                  €  425 345 317               526 295 105           425 345 316            364 571 284
Spain                  €  231 369 156               286 281 403           231 369 156            198 310 753
# of
Medication                   Type  of medication            patients studied         NNT
Diclofenac 100 mg                 Prescription NSAID                  545                1.8
Celecoxib 400 mg                  Prescription NSAID                  298                2.1
Ibuprofen 400 mg                  Prescription NSAID                 5456                2.5
Naproxen  400 mg                  Prescription NSAID                  197                2.7
Ibuprofen 200 mg                     OTC  NSAID                      3248                2.7
Oxycodone  10 mg  +
acetaminophen  1000 mg               Prescription opioid                 83                 2.7
Morphine 10  mg intramuscular            Injectable opioid                  948                2.9
Oxycodone  5 mg +                 Prescription opioid                 149                5.5
acetaminophen  325  mg
Tramadol 50 mg                   Prescription opioid                 770                8.3
System               Examples   of disorders, conditions,  and
symptoms
Neurological         Stroke, dementia, Parkinson  disease, seizure
disorders, headache  disorders, traumatic
brain injury, peripheral neuropathy, chronic
pain disorders, neuromuscular  disorders
Cardiovascular       Angina,  congestive heart failure, dyspnea,
dysrhythmias
Pulmonary            COPD,   emphysema,   asthma,  laryngospasm
Digestive            Reflux, peptic ulcer disease, cholelithiasis,
colitis, irritable bowel syndrome
Genitourinary        Incontinence, benign  prostatic hypertrophy,
nocturia, enuresis, interstitial cystitis
Endocrine            Hypothyroidism,   hyperthyroidism,  diabetes
mellitus
Musculoskeletal      Rheumatoid   arthritis, osteoarthritis,
fibromyalgia, Sjögren  syndrome,  kyphosis
Reproductive         Pregnancy,  menopause,   menstrual cycle
variations
Sleep disorders      Obstructive sleep apnea,  central sleep
apnea, restless legs syndrome, periodic limb
movement   disorder, circadian rhythm  sleep
disorders, parasomnias
Other                Allergies, rhinitis, sinusitis, bruxism,
alcohol and other substance  use/dependence/
withdrawal
Measured        Include                                                              Exclude
in
Plasma          Vit D                                                                Alkaline  phosphatase
Vit E: alpha-tocopherol,  gamma   tocopherol                         Minerals:  Zinc, Copper,  caeruloplasmin
Vit C                                                                Other  dietary lipids: Cholesterol, Triglycerides, LDL,
Provit A carotenoids:  Carotene, Alpha-carotene,  B-carotene         HDL
Nonprovit  A  carotenoids: Lycopene,  Cryptoxanthin   (B-),
zeaxanthin, Lutein
Selenium,  Selenoprotein
Folate,
Iron: ferritin
Vit A Retinol: Retinol  Binding Protein
Cadmium,   Cadmium/zinc    ratio
EPA  DHA    fatty acids
Adipose         n-3 fatty acids: EPA  (Eicosapentaenoic),  DHA                       Unsaturated  fat, Monounsaturated   fatty acids
tissue          (Docosahexaenoic)                                                    n-9 fatty acids
n-6 fatty acids                                                      other measures  of polyunsat  fa: M:S ratio, M:P ratio,
Trans fatty acids , Polyunsaturated fatty acids, Saturated fatty     n3-n6  ratio
acids
leucocyte       Vit C                                                                Zinc
Erythrocyte     n-6 fatty acids: linoleic                                            n-6 fatty acids (other than linoleic)
membrane                                                                             n-3 fatty acids: EPA  (Eicosapentaenoic),  DHA
(Docosahexaenoic)
Hair                                                                                 Minerals:  Zinc, Copper,  Manganese,   Iron
Cadmium
Toenails or     Selenium                                                             Cadmium,    zinc
fingernails
Table  4: The   results of  One-sample     sign  test for first three parts  of questionnaire
P-value
Experimental
First three parts                                   Mathematical                             Humanities
science
My   current  course  book  is sufficient for          0/5               0/00                0/00
mathematical   connections.
There     are     sufficient   mathematical
Items  for  perceptions   about                                                          0/01               0/01                0/36
sufficiency  of   mathematical     connections  during mathematics   teaching.
I think  that  I am   able to  connect  math
connections                        subjects to the real-life.                            0/00                0/5                0/69
I  think  that  I am   able  to  apply  math          0/00               0/00                0/00
subjects in the real-life.
Emphasizing   about why  should  I learn.             0/00               0/00                0/00
Emphasizing      about    benefits   of   the         0/00               0/00                0/00
mathematics   subjects.
Emphasizing     about   the  significance  of         0/00               0/00                0/00
mathematics   in the real-life.
Items  for  perceptions   about    Teaching   mathematics   with connections  to
0/00               0/00                0/00
importance    of  mathematical     the real-life.
connections                        Teaching   mathematics    through   hands-on
and  modeling  activities.                            0/00               0/00                0/00
Teaching   mathematics   with connections  to         0/00               0/00                0/00
the other courses.
Assessing    the    degree     of   applying
0/00               0/00                0/00
mathematics   subjects to the real-life.
Emphasizing   about why  should  I learn.             0/00               0/00                0/00
Emphasizing      about    benefits   of   the         0/00               0/00                0/00
mathematics   subjects.
Emphasizing     about   the  significance  of
0/00               0/00                0/00
mathematics   in the real-life.
Items  for  perceptions   about    Teaching   mathematics   with connections  to                                                0/00
the frequency  of mathematical     the real-life.                                        0/00               0/00
connections                        Teaching   mathematics    through   hands-on          0/00               0/00                0/00
and  modeling  activities.
Teaching   mathematics   with connections  to
0/00               0/00                0/00
the other courses.
Assessing    the    degree     of   applying
mathematics   subjects to the real-life.              0/00               0/01                0/00
5 to 20 Nautical Miles             20 to 50 Nautical Miles
< 30 m    => 30 m       %                                   %
Region          deep      deep      Exclusion      < 30 m    => 30 m   Exclusion
New  England          9,900     41,600       67           2,700   166,300       33
Mid-Atlantic States  46,500      8,500       67          35,500   170,000       33
California            2,650     57,250       67               0   238,300       33
Pacific Northwest      725      34,075       67               0     93,700      33
Total              59,775   141,425        67          38,200   668,300       33
1991         1992        1993        1994        1995        1996         1997        1998        1999        2000        2001
€ m         € m         € m         € m         € m          € m         € m         € m         € m         € m         € m
Turnover,  including  share  of joint ventures       1,608.5     1,576.4     1,904.8      2,193.3     2,520.0     3,354.1     4,234.3     5,210.9      6,733.8     8,869.8    10,443.5
Less: share  of joint ventures                         124.8       132.7       110.5        128.5        92.9       152.0       154.7       176.6        134.4       168.0       236.7
1,483.7     1,443.7     1,794.3      2,064.8     2,427.1     3,202.1     4,079.6     5,034.3      6,599.4     8,701.8    10,206.8
Group  trading profit        (a)                       108.4        90.9       118.5        156.3       216.5       272.7       343.5       436.4        651.6       871.1       950.7
Share  of joint ventures' operating profit                7.2         9.7         7.2        16.9         8.1        10.8        14.2         15.4        11.8        16.5        25.5
Exceptional items                                            -            -           -           -           -           -            -           -      64.2             -           -
Trading  profit, including share  of joint ventures    115.6       100.6       125.7        173.2       224.6       283.5       357.7       451.8        727.6       887.6       976.2
Interest payable (net)
- Group                                                (28.9)       (23.7)      (28.1)      (23.4)      (19.1)      (24.3)       (32.1)      (37.5)      (91.8)     (190.0)     (169.7)
- share of joint ventures                                (6.3)       (3.7)       (2.3)       (1.6)        (1.6)       (3.3)       (4.1)       (5.4)       (0.9)       (0.9)        (3.6)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation           80.4        73.2         95.3       148.2       203.9       255.9       321.5       408.9        634.9       696.7       802.9
Taxation on  profit on ordinary activities             (14.7)       (13.2)      (17.6)      (27.7)      (41.8)      (58.3)       (75.7)      (99.9)     (152.0)     (193.7)     (217.0)
Taxation on  exceptional items                               -            -           -           -           -           -            -           -     (25.7)            -           -
Profit on ordinary activies after taxation              65.7        60.0         77.7       120.5       162.1       197.6       245.8       309.0        457.2       503.0       585.9
Employment    of capital
Fixed  assets
- Intangible asset - goodwill                               -            -           -           -           -           -            -    138.2        629.2       954.6     1,153.5
- Tangible assets                                     539.6       570.2       718.0        806.5       895.2     1,235.5     1,518.8     2,287.6      3,225.8     4,550.9     5,150.5
- Financial assets                                     57.8        66.8         57.3        73.0       118.2       127.3       131.5         52.6        66.6       104.0       315.8
Net current assets             (b)                     120.2       111.8       106.2        114.4       132.9       255.3       313.4       512.5        607.9       915.1     1,039.8
Other liabilities             (c)                           -           -           -            -      (13.0)      (25.0)       (60.8)     (286.3)     (430.3)     (469.8)     (479.3)
717.6       748.8       881.5        993.9     1,133.3     1,593.1     1,902.9     2,704.6      4,099.2     6,054.8     7,180.3
Financed   as follows
Equity shareholders' funds                             472.6       468.9       733.9        756.4       868.2     1,055.8     1,308.4     1,552.8      2,200.5     3,073.9     4,734.2
Non-equity  share capital                                 1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2          1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2
Minority shareholders' equity interest                    3.6         3.1         4.4        13.0        11.7        12.5        13.7       285.3         37.0        35.7       135.1
Capital grants                                          15.5        14.2         13.4        12.7        12.1        11.1        10.4         19.9        18.8        17.3        15.7
Deferred  and future taxation                           29.6        33.8         44.0        43.7        48.9        70.3       104.0       115.9        172.4       306.9       400.4
Debt/(cash)                    (d)                      34.6        54.2       (108.6)      (30.4)      189.3       442.2       465.2       729.5      1,669.3     2,619.8     1,893.7
Convertible capital bonds     (e)                      160.5       173.4       193.2        197.3         1.9             -           -           -           -           -            -
717.6       748.8       881.5        993.9     1,133.3     1,593.1     1,902.9     2,704.6      4,099.2     6,054.8     7,180.3
Purchase  of tangible assets                            36.4        43.5         61.2        65.6       109.2       150.0       147.3       232.1        360.1       429.5       452.3
Acquisitions and investments                            43.7        85.2         98.5       202.7       164.3       532.2       240.5       603.8      1,420.7     1,605.1     1,080.1
Total capital expenditure                               80.1       128.7       159.7        268.3       273.5       682.2       387.8       835.9      1,780.8     2,034.6     1,532.4
Depreciation  and goodwill amortisation                 52.5        49.1         61.1        71.0        81.1       103.6       129.1       165.9        275.0       395.0       495.3
Earnings  per share (cent)        (f)                   19.84       18.05       22.34       30.72        41.14       48.65       58.11       72.08       97.02      113.79      115.32
Dividend  per share (cent)       (f)                     7.23        7.56        8.36         9.36       10.52       11.80       13.54       15.61       18.22        20.77       23.00
Cash  earnings per share  (cent)  (f)                   35.92       32.98       40.09       49.11        61.97       74.43       88.94      111.21      161.23      204.00      213.45
Dividend  cover (times)         (g)                     2.73        2.38         2.50         3.27        3.87        4.02        4.27        4.59         5.29        5.34        4.85
Frequency
Rank                          Journal                                (%)          TC     h-index     C/A      HC  (%)       IF     Total IF
𝑁  = 976
1st                       Malaria Journal                        136 (13.93)     1860       22      13.68    29 (21.32)   3.079    418.744
2nd          Antimicrobial  Agents and  Chemotherapy              96 (9.84)      2017       27      21.01    41 (42.71)    3.34    320.64
3rd     American  Journal of Tropical Medicine  and Hygiene       56 (5.74)      1124       19      20.07    19 (33.93)   2.699    151.144
4th                          Plos One                             38 (3.89)       733       16      19.29    13 (34.21)    3.54     134.52
5th                Journal of Infectious Diseases                 30 (3.07)      997        21      33.23    21 (70.00)   6.344     190.32
6th                        Acta  Tropica                          26 (2.66)      358        12      13.77    7 (26.92)    2.380     61.88
7th              Infection Genetics and  Evolution                 21 (2.15)     285        9       13.57     5 (23.81)   2.591     54.411
8th                            PNAS                               16 (1.64)      785        12      49.06    10 (62.50)   9.423    150.768
8th                    Trends in Parasitology                     16 (1.64)      242        9       15.13    4 (25.00)    7.295     116.72
10th               Emerging   Infectious Diseases                  15 (1.54)     229        9       15.27    3 (20.00)     6.99     104.85
Total                            450  (46.11%)                                                       1,704
Nutrient                Biologic       Val./reproduc     Coef      Details
tissue
Docosahexaenoic         Adipose        Validity          0.66      Correlation  with intake estimated from three 7-day weighted  food records
(n-3)                   Tissue                                     (Willett, p 223)
Reproducibility   0.93      Correlation  over 8 months  in 27 men and women   aged  20-29 (Willett, p 223).
Plasma         Validity          0.42      Correlation  of cholesterol ester fraction and intake in 3,570 adults (Willett, p
223)
Reproducibility   0.38      Correlation  of two measurements   taken 6 years apart in study of 759 Finnish
youths  (Willett, p 219)
Polyunsaturated         Adipose        Validity          0.80      Correlation  between  % of polyunsaturated  fatty acid relative to total fatty acid
fatty acids             tissue                                     intake and relative % of adipose tissue polyunsaturated fatty acid (Willett, p
220)
Palmitic acid           Adipose        Validity          0.27      Correlation  adipose tissue measurement  with a FFQ  estimate among   118 men.
tissue                                     A  correlation of 0.14 was reported among  women.   Among   20 healthy subjects,
correlations between  normal  intake of total saturated fatty acids and fatty acid
composition  of triglycerides in adipose tissue was 0.57 (Willett, p 224)
Stearic acid            Adipose        Validity          0.56      Among    20 healthy subjects, correlations between normal intake of total
tissue                                     saturated fatty acids and fatty acid composition of triglycerides in adipose
tissue (Willett, p 224)
Trans fatty acids       Adipose        Validity          0.40      Correlation  between  adipose trans and intake estimated from the average of two
tissue                                     FFQ   among  140  Boston-area women.   Previous study: 115  Boston area women,
correlation of 0.51 between  trans intake estimated from a single FFQ and  a fatty
acid measurement.   Among   118 Boston-area  men:  correlation of 0.29 between
trans fatty acid measured in adipose and by  FFQ  (Willett, p 225)
Nitrogen                Urine          Validity          0.69      Correlation  between  nitrogen intakes estimated from weighted  food records of
16  days and the average of six 24-h urine nitrogen levels (160 women)  (Willett,
p 227)
Phyto Oestrogens        Plasma         Validity          0.97      Urinary  excretion (24 h) and plasma  concentrations of PO were  significantly
Genistein, daidzein     24 hr urine                      0.92      related to measured  dietary PO intake (r 0.97, P<0.001 and r 0.92,
P<0.001   respectively). These findings validate the PO database and indicate
that 24 h urinary excretion and timed plasma  concentrations can be used  as
biomarkers  of PO  intake. Br J Nutr. 2004 Mar;91(3):447-57
Exposure                Measured       Valid?     Reason  (Willett)                                 Reason   (Margetts  / Nelson)
in
Zinc                      Any          No       No (p 212)  May  be marker  of short-term intake    No  biochemical  marker  is a good indicator of
Metallothionein  levels                No       (p 213)                                             zinc intake (p 192/193). This  is, in general
terms, also true for other trace metal nutrients
such  as copper, manganese,  chromium,   etc
Lipids: total fats        Any          No       No (p 213)                                          No,  there are no markers of total fat intake (p
215)
Cholesterol, LDL          Serum        No       No, but may  be useful to predict dietary changes   No,  relationship dietary cholesterol and
Lipoprotein  levels                             but not for dietary intake (p 215)                  lipoprotein levels of cholesterol are complex
and  appears to vary across range of intake
(p218)
Linoleic acid             Plasma       No       Plasma  linoleic acid can discriminate between      No  consistent relation between  dietary linoleic
groups with relatively large differences in intake  acid intake and plasma  linoleic acid (p 220).
but performs less well on an individual basis (p    Across  the range of fatty acids in the diet, fatty
Adipose      Yes      220)                                                acids levels in blood and other tissue (adipose
tissue                Yes (p 220)                                         tissue) reflect the dietary levels. NB levels are
not comparable   across tissues
Marine  omega-3   fatty   Serum        Yes      Yes (p 222/223),  although dose-response
acids (EPA,  DHA)         Plasma                relation
Adipose               remains to be determined
tissue
Monounsat   fatty acids   Plasma       No       No, plasma  levels are poor predictors of oleic
(oleic acid)              Adipose      No       acid intake, but adipose tissue may weakly
tissue                reflect oleic acid intake (p. 224). Validity is too
low
Polyunsat  fatty acids    Adipose      Yes      Yes (p 220)                                         No  info
tissue
interior Finish
AeVolue,   Ae Fa   TU
Insulation  Betrmen                        Furting  Strips Over
Furring  Stripe                       Continuaue    Insulation
f                                         i
i
;
ff
