tel: 212-354-4480  ~ fax: 212-575-0327
e-mail: info@uscib.org   ~ Internet: www.uscib.org
Serving  American  Business   as U.S. Affiliate of:
International Chamber   of Commerce    (ICC)
International Organisation  of Employers  (IOE)
Business  and  Industry Advisory  Committee   (BIAC) to the OECD
ATA  Carnet  System
August      18,  2005
Regarding the issues you raised in your letter, we understand that BIAC is aware of the situation in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the allegations related to Anvil Mining.
We further understand that both the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Canadian
Chamber of Commerce are aware of the situation and that the National Contact Point in Canada has
initiated a process to review the implementation of the Guidelines in this specific instance.
We believe that this process should be allowed to run its course.
On your suggestion that the OECD develop new guidance on how companies work with security forces,
our view is that doing so would needlessly duplicate the good work that is being done under the
Voluntary Principles for Security and Human Rights, which you mention in your letter.
The Voluntary Principles are a multi-stakeholder effort involving four OECD member governments and
has been established to address the specific challenge your letter identifies.
It would be more effective and efficient to direct additional resources to that effort than for the
OECD to launch its own program in this area.
In this regard, you may want to engage the governments of Canada and Australia with the suggestion
that they join the Principles.
And finally, it should be noted that your July 15 letter to Bill Turner of Anvil Mining misstates
the status of the “norms” on business and human rights.
That document was explicitly rejected by the UN Commission on Human Rights, which stated that the
draft "has not been requested by the Commission and, as a draft proposal, has no legal standing, and
that the Sub-Commission should not perform any monitoring function in this regard.".
